--- PAGE 1 ---

Know Your Policy Better

--- PAGE 2 ---

1. Preamble
The proposal and declaration given by the proposer and other 
documents if any shall form the basis of this Contract and is 
deemed to be incorporated herein. The two parties to this contract 
are the Policy Holder/Insured/Insured Persons (also referred as 
You) and Care Health Insurance Limited (also referred as 
Company/ We/Us), and all the Provisions of Indian Contract Act, 
1872, shall hold good in this regard. The references to the singular 
include references to the plural; references to the male include the 
references to the female; and references to any statutory enactment 
include subsequent changes to the same and vice versa. The 
sentence construction and wordings in the Policy documents 
should be taken in its true sense and should not be taken in a way so 
as to take advantage of the Company by filing a claim which 
deviates from the purpose of Insurance.
In return for premium paid, the Company will pay the Insured in 
case a valid claim is made:
In consideration of the premium paid by the Policy Holder, subject 
to the terms & conditions contained herein, the Company agrees to 
pay/indemnify the Insured Person(s), the amount of such expenses 
that are reasonably and necessarily incurred up to the limits 
specified against respective Benefit in any Policy Year.
Policy Terms & Conditions
Please check whether the details given by you about the 
insured persons in the proposal form (a copy of which was 
provided at the time of issuance of cover for the first time) 
are incorporated correctly in the policy schedule. If you 
find any discrepancy, please inform us within 15 days 
from the date of receipt of the policy, failing which the 
details relating to the person/s covered would be taken as 
correct.
So also the coverage details may also be gone through and 
in the absence of any communication from you within 15 
days from the date of receipt of the policy, it would be 
construed that the policy issued is correct and the claims if 
any arise under the policy will be dealt with based on 
proposal /policy details.
For the purposes of interpretation and understanding of 
the product the Company has defined, herein below some 
of the important words used in the product and for the 
remaining language and the words the Company believes 
to mean the normal meaning of the English language as 
explained in the standard language dictionaries. The 
words and expressions defined in the Insurance Act, IRDA 
Act, regulations notified by the Insurance Regulatory and 
Development Authority of India (“Authority”) and 
circulars and guidelines issued by the Authority shall carry 
the meanings described therein. The terms and conditions, 
insurance coverage and exclusions, other Benefits, 
various procedures and conditions which have been built-
in to the product are to be construed in accordance with the 
applicable provisions contained in the product.
The terms defined below have the meanings ascribed to 
them wherever they appear in this Policy and, where 
appropriate.
2. Definitions
2.1. Standard Definitions:
2.1.1. Accidental / Accident is a sudden, unforeseen and  
 involuntary event caused by external,  v i s i b l e  a n d   
 violent means.
2.1.2. AYUSH Hospital is a healthcare facility wherein  
 medical/surgical/para-surgical treatment  p r o c e d u r e s   
 and interventions are carried out by AYUSH Medical  
 Practitioner(s) comprising of any of the following:
 (a) Central or State Government AYUSH Hospital or
 (b) Teaching hospital attached to AYUSH College  
  recognized by the Central Government/Central  
  Council of Indian Medicine/Central Council for 
  Homeopathy ;or
 (c) AYUSH Hospital, standalone or co-located with 
  in-patient healthcare facility of any recognized  
  system of medicine, registered with the local  
  authorities, wherever applicable, and is under the 
  supervision of  a qualified registered AYUSH  
  Medical Practitioner and must comply with all the 
  following criterion:
  i. Having at least 5 in-patient beds;
  ii. Having qualified AYUSH Medical  
  Practitioner in charge round the clock;
  iii. Having dedicated AYUSH therapy sections 
   as required and/or has equipped operation 
   theatre where surgical procedures are to be 
   carried out;
  iv. Maintaining daily records of the patients  
   and making them accessible to the  
   insurance company's authorized
   representative.
2.1.3. AYUSH Day Care Centre means and includes  
 Community Health Centre (CHC),Primary
 Health Centre (PHC), Dispensary, Clinic, Polyclinic or
 any such center which is registered with  t h e  l o c a l
 authorities, wherever applicable, and having facilities  
 for carrying out treatment procedures and medical or  
 surgical/para-surgical interventions or both under the  
 supervision of registered AYUSH Medical Practitioner 
 (s) on day care basis without in-patient  services and  
 must comply with all the following criterion:
 i. Having qualified registered AYUSH Medical  
  Practitioner(s) in charge;
 ii. Having dedicated AYUSH therapy sections as  
  required and/or has equipped operation theatre  
  where surgical procedures are to be carried out;
 iii. Maintaining daily records of the patients and  
  making them accessible to the insurance  
  company's authorized representative.
2.1.4. Any One Illness (not applicable for Travel and  
 Personal Accident Insurance) means a  c o n t i n u o u s   
 Period of Illness and includes relapse within 45 days  
Policy Terms and Conditions
1
Care Classic - CHIHLIP22071V012122

--- PAGE 3 ---

 from the date of last consultation with the
 Hospital/Nursing Home where the treatment was taken
2.1.5. Cashless Facility means a facility extended by the  
 insurer to the Insured where the payments, of the  
 costs of treatment undergone by the insured in  
 accordance with the Policy terms and conditions, are  
 directly made to the network Provider by the insurer to 
 the extent pre-authorization is approved.
2.1.6. Condition Precedent shall mean a Policy term or  
 condition upon which the Insurer's liability  
 under the Policy is conditional upon.
2.1.7. Congenital Anomaly refers to a condition which is  
 present since birth, and which is abnormal with reference 
 to form, structure or position : 
 a. Internal Congenital Anomaly – 
  Congenital anomaly which is not in the visible  
  and accessible parts of the body
 b. External Congenital Anomaly – 
  Congenital anomaly which is in the visible and  
  accessible parts of the body
2.1.8. Co-payment is a cost-sharing requirement under a  
 health insurance policy that provides that the  
 policyholder/ insured will bear a specified percentage of 
 the admissible claim amount. A co-payment does not  
 reduce the sum insured.
2.1.9. Cumulative Bonus mean any increase or addition in the 
 Sum Insured granted by the insurer without an  
 associated increase in premium.
2.1.10. Day Care Centre means any institution established for 
 day care treatment of illness and/or injuries or a  
 medical setup within a hospital and which has been  
 registered with the local  a u t h o r i t i e s ,  w h e r e v e r   
 applicable, and is under the supervision of a registered 
 and qualified medical practitioner AND must comply  
 with all minimum criteria as under—
 c. has qualified nursing staff under its employment;
 d. has qualified Medical Practitioner/s in-charge;
 e. has a fully equipped operation theatre of its own, 
  where Day Care Treatment is carried out.
 f. maintains daily records of patients and will make 
  these accessible to the insurance company's  
  authorized personnel.
2.1.11. Day Care Treatment means medical treatment, and/ or 
 Surgical Procedure which is:
 a. undertaken under general or local anesthesia in a 
  Hospital/ Day Care Centre in less than 24  
  consecutive hours because of technological  
  advancement, and
 b. which would have otherwise required a  
  Hospitalization of more than 24 hours. 
 Treatment normally taken on an out-patient basis is not 
 included in the scope of this definition. 
2.1.12. Deductible is a cost-sharing requirement under a health 
 insurance policy that provides that  the Insurer will not 
 be liable for a specified rupee amount in case of  
 indemnity policies and  for a specified number of  
 days/hours in case of hospital cash policies which will 
 apply before any benefits are payable by the insurer. A 
 deductible does not reduce the Sum Insured. 
2.1.13. Dental Treatment means a treatment related to teeth or 
 structures supporting teeth including examinations,  
 fillings (where appropriate), crowns, extractions and  
 surgery .
2.1.14. Disclosure to Information Norm: The Policy shall be 
 void and all premium paid thereon shall be forfeited to 
 the Company, in the event of misrepresentation, mis- 
 description or non-disclosure of any material fact.
2.1.15. Domiciliary Hospitalization means medical treatment 
 for an illness/disease/injury which in the normal course 
 would require care and treatment at a Hospital but is  
 actually taken while confined at home under any of the 
 following circumstances:
 i. The condition of the patient is such that he/she is 
  not in a condition to be   removed to a Hospital, or
 g. The patient takes treatment at home on account of 
  non-availability of room in a Hospital.
2.1.16. Emergency Care (Emergency) means management for 
 an illness or injury which results in symptoms which  
 occur suddenly and unexpectedly, and requires  
 immediate care by a medical practitioner to prevent  
 death or serious long term impairment of the insured  
 Person's health.
2.1.17. Grace Period means the specified period of time  
 immediately following the premium due  date during  
 which payment can be made to renew or continue a  
 Policy in force without loss of continuity benefits such as 
 waiting periods and coverage of Pre-existing Diseases. 
 Coverage is not available for the period for which no  
 premium is received. 
2.1.18. Hospital (not applicable for Overseas Travel Insurance) 
 means any institution established for in-patient care and 
 day care treatment of illness and/or injuries and which 
 has been registered as a hospital with the local authorities 
 under the Clinical Establishments  (Registration and  
 Regulation) Act, 2010 or under the enactments specified 
 under the Schedule of Section 56(1) of the said Act OR 
 complies with all minimum criteria as under:
 a. has qualified nursing staff under its employment 
  round the clock;
 b. has at least 10 in-patient beds in towns having a 
  population of less than 10,00,000 and at least 15 
  in-patient beds in all other places;
 c. has qualified Medical Practitioner(s) in charge  
  round the clock;
 d. has a fully equipped operation theatre of its own 
  where surgical procedures are carried out;
 e. maintains daily records of patients and makes  
  these accessible to the insurance company's  
  authorized personnel.
2.1.19 Hospitalization (not applicable for Overseas Travel  
 Insurance) means admission in a Hospital for a  
 minimum period of 24 consecutive 'In-patient Care'  
 hours except for specified procedures/treatments, where 
 such admission could be for a period of less than 24  
2
Care Classic - CHIHLIP22071V012122

--- PAGE 4 ---

 consecutive hours.
2.1.20. Illness means a sickness or a disease or a pathological 
 condition leading to the impairment  o f  n o r m a l   
 physiological function and requires medical treatment.
 (a) Acute condition - Acute condition is a disease, illness 
 or injury that is likely to respond quickly to treatment  
 which aims to return the person to his or her state of  
 health immediately before suffering the disease/ illness/ 
 injury which leads to full recovery
  (b) Chronic condition - A chronic condition is defined as 
 a disease, illness, or injury that has one or more of the  
 following characteristics:
 (a) It needs ongoing or long-term monitoring through 
  consultations, examinations, check-ups, and /or  
  tests;
 (b) It needs ongoing or long-term control or relief of 
  symptoms;
 (c) It requires rehabilitation for the patient or for the 
  patient to be specially trained to cope with it;
 (d) It continues indefinitely;
 (e) It recurs or is likely to recur.
2.1.21. Injury means accidental physical bodily harm  
 excluding illness or disease solely and directly  
 caused by external, violent and visible and evident  
 means which is verified and certified by a  M e d i c a l   
 Practitioner.
2.1.22. In-patient Care (not applicable for Overseas Travel  
 Insurance) means treatment for which the Insured  
 Person has to stay in a Hospital for more than 24 hours 
 for a covered event.
2.1.23. Intensive Care Unit (ICU) means an identified section, 
 ward or wing of a Hospital which is under the constant 
 supervision of a dedicated Medical Practitioner(s), and 
 which is specially equipped for the continuous  
 monitoring and treatment of patients who are in a critical 
 condition, or require life support facilities and where the 
 level of care and supervision is  c o n s i d e r a b l y  m o r e   
 sophisticated and intensive than in the ordinary and other 
 wards.
2.1.24. ICU Charges (Intensive care Unit) means the amount 
 charged by a Hospital towards ICU expenses which shall 
 include the expenses for ICU bed, general medical  
 support services provided to any ICU patient including 
 monitoring devices, critical care nursing and intensivist 
 charges.
2.1.25. Maternity expenses shall include—
 a. Medical treatment expenses traceable to  
  childbirth (including complicated deliveries and 
  c a e s a r e a n  s e c t i o n s  i n c u r r e d  d u r i n g
  hospitalization). 
 b. Expenses towards lawful medical termination of 
  pregnancy during the policy period.
2.1.26. Medical Advice means any consultation or advice from 
 a Medical Practitioner including the issuance of any  
 prescription or follow-up prescription.
2.1.27. Medical Expenses means those expenses that an  
 Insured Person has necessarily and actually  
 incurred for medical treatment on account of Illness or 
 Accident on the advice of a Medical  Practitioner, as 
 long as these are no more than would have been payable 
 if the Insured Person had not been insured and no more 
 than other Hospitals or doctors in the same  
 locality would have charged for the same medical  
 treatment.
2.1.28. Medical Practitioner (not applicable for Overseas  
 Travel Insurance) is a person who holds a valid  
 registration from the Medical Council of any State or  
 Medical Council of India or Council for Indian Medicine 
 or for Homeopathy set up by the Government of India or 
 a State Government and is thereby entitled to practice  
 medicine within its jurisdiction; and is acting within the 
 scope and jurisdiction of license.
2.1.29. Medically Necessary Treatment (not applicable for  
 Overseas Travel Insurance) means any treatment,  
 tests, medication, or stay in Hospital or part of a stay in 
 Hospital which:
 a. Is required for the medical management of the  
  Illness or Injury suffered by the Insured Person;
 b. Must not exceed the level of care necessary to  
  provide safe, adequate and appropriate medical  
  care in scope, duration, or intensity;
 c. Must have been prescribed by a Medical  
  Practitioner;
 d. Must conform to the professional standards  
  widely accepted in international medical practice 
  or by the medical community in India.
2.1.30. Migration means, the right accorded to health insurance 
 policyholders (including all  members under family  
 cover and members of group health insurance policy), to 
 transfer the credit gained for pre-existing conditions and 
 time bound exclusions, with the same insurer.
2.1.31. Network Provider (not applicable for Overseas Travel 
 Insurance) means the Hospitals  enlisted by an Insurer, 
 TPA or jointly by an Insurer and TPA to provide medical 
 services to an Insured by a Cashless Facility.
2.1.32. Newborn baby means baby born during the Policy  
 Period and is aged up to 90 days.
2.1.33. Non - Network Provider: Non-Network means any  
 hospital, day care centre or other provider that is not part 
 of the network.
2.1.34. Notification of Claim means the process of intimating a 
 Claim to the Insurer or TPA through any of the  
 recognized modes of communication.
2.1.35. OPD Treatment is one in which the Insured Person  
 visits a clinic/Hospital or associated facility like a  
 consultation room for diagnosis and treatment based on 
 the advice of a Medical Practitioner. The Insured is not 
 admitted as a day care or In-patient.
2.1.36. Portability means the right accorded to individual  
 health insurance policyholders (including  all members 
 under family cover) to transfer the credit gained for pre-
 existing conditions and  time-bound exclusions, from 
 one insurer to another insurer.
2.1.37. Pre-existing Disease means  any  condition,  ailment,  
3
Care Classic - CHIHLIP22071V012122

--- PAGE 5 ---

 injury or disease
 i. That is/are diagnosed by a physician  within  48 
  months prior to the effective date of the policy   
  issued  by the insurer or its reinstatement  or
 ii. For which medical advice or  treatment  was   
  recommended  by, or  received  from, a  physician  
  within 48  months  prior to the effective date of the 
  policy issued by insurer or its reinstatement.
 2.1.38. Pre-hospitalization Medical Expenses means Medical 
 Expenses incurred during pre-defined number of days  
 preceding the hospitalization of the Insured Person,  
 provided that :
 i. Such Medical Expenses are incurred for the same 
  condition for which the Insured Person's  
  Hospitalization was required, and
 ii. The In-patient Hospitalization claim for such  
  Hospitalization is admissible by the Insurance  
  Company.
2.1.39. Post-hospitalization Medical Expenses means  
 Medical Expenses incurred during pre-defined
  number of days immediately after the Insured  
  Person is discharged from the Hospital provided 
  that:
 i. Such Medical Expenses are incurred for the same 
  condition for which the Insured Person's  
  Hospitalization was required and
 ii. The inpatient Hospitalization claim for such  
  Hospitalization is admissible by the Company.
2.1.40. Qualified Nurse (not applicable for Overseas Travel  
 Insurance) is a person who holds a valid  r e g i s t r a t i o n   
 from the Nursing Council of India or the Nursing  
 Council of any state in India.
2.1.41. Reasonable and Customary Charges (not applicable 
 for Overseas Travel Insurance) means the charges for  
 services or supplies, which are the standard charges for 
 the specific provider and consistent with the prevailing 
 charges in the geographical area for identical or similar 
 services, taking into account the nature of the Illness/  
 Injury involved.
2.1.42. Renewal means the terms on which the contract of  
 insurance can be renewed on mutual consent with a  
 provision of grace period for treating the renewal  
 continuous for the purpose of gaining credit for pre- 
 existing diseases, time-bound exclusions and for all  
 waiting periods.
2.1.43. Room Rent means the amount charged by a Hospital  
 towards Room & Boarding expenses and shall include 
 the associated medical expenses.
2.1.44. Subrogation (Applicable to other than Health Policies 
 and health sections of Travel and PA policies) means the 
 right of the Insurer to assume the rights of the Insured  
 Person to recover expenses paid out under the Policy that 
 may be recovered from any other source.
2.1.45. Surgery/Surgical Procedure: means manual and/or  
 operative procedure(s) required for treatment of an  
 Illness or Injury, correction of deformities and defects, 
 diagnosis and cure of diseases, relief from suffering or 
 prolongation of life, performed in a Hospital or a Day  
 Care Centre by a Medical Practitioner.
2.1.46. Unproven/Experimental Treatment means a
 treatment including drug experimental therapy which is 
 not based on established medical practice in India, is  
 treatment experimental or unproven.
2.2. Specific Definitions:
2.2.1. Age means the completed age of the Insured Person as on 
 his last birthday.
2.2.2. Ambulance means a vehicle operated by a licensed/  
 authorized service provider and equipped for the  
 transport and paramedical treatment of persons requiring 
 medical attention.
2.2.3. Annexure means the document attached and marked as 
 Annexure to this Policy.
2.2.4. Claim means a demand made in accordance with the  
 terms and conditions of the Policy for payment of the  
 specified Benefits in respect of the Insured Person. 
2.2.5. Claimant means a person who possesses a relevant and 
 valid Insurance Policy which is  issued by the Company 
 and is eligible to file a Claim in the event of a covered 
 loss.
2.2.6. Company (also referred as Insurer/We/Us) means  
 Care Health Insurance Limited.
2.2.7. Diagnosis means pathological conclusion drawn by a  
 registered medical practitioner,  supported by acceptable 
 Clinical, radiological, histological, histo-pathological  
 and laboratory evidence wherever applicable.
2.2.8. Hazardous Activities (or Adventure sports) means any 
 sport or activity, which is potentially dangerous to the  
 Insured whether he is trained or not. Such sport/activity 
 includes (but not limited to) stunt activities of any kind, 
 adventure racing, base jumping, biathlon, big game  
 hunting, black water rafting, BMX stunt/ obstacle riding, 
 bobsleighing/ using skeletons, bouldering, boxing,  
 canyoning, caving/ pot holing, cave tubing, rock  
 climbing/ trekking/mountaineering, cycle racing, cyclo 
 cross, drag racing, endurance testing, hand gliding,  
 harness racing, hell skiing, high diving (above 5 meters), 
 hunting, ice hockey, ice speedway,  j o u s t i n g ,  j u d o ,   
 karate, kendo, lugging, risky manual labor, marathon  
 running, martial arts,  micro – lighting, modern  
 pentathlon, motor cycle racing, motor rallying,  
 parachuting, paragliding/ parapenting, piloting aircraft, 
 polo, power lifting, power boat racing, quad  
 biking, river boarding, scuba diving, river bugging,  
 rodeo, roller hockey, rugby, ski acrobatics,  ski doo, ski 
 jumping, ski racing, sky diving, small bore target  
 shooting, speed trials/ time  trials, triathlon, water ski  
 jumping, weight lifting or wrestling of any type.
2.2.9. Indemnity/Indemnify means compensating the Insured 
 Person up to the extent of Expenses  incurred, on  
 occurrence of an event which results in a financial loss 
 and is covered as the  subject matter of the Insurance  
 Cover.
2.2.10. Insured Event means an event that is covered under the 
 Policy; and which is in accordance  with the Policy  
 Terms & Conditions.
2.2.11. Insured Person (Insured) means a self, legally married 
4
Care Classic - CHIHLIP22071V012122

--- PAGE 6 ---

 spouse, dependent children,  dependent parents or any  
 other relationship having an insurable interest and whose 
 name specifically appears under Insured in the Policy  
 Schedule and with respect to whom the  premium has 
 been received by the Company.
2.2.12. Mental Illness means a substantial disorder of thinking, 
 mood, perception, orientation or    memory that grossly 
 impairs judgment, behavior, capacity to recognize,  
 reality or ability to meet the ordinary demands of life,  
 mental conditions associated with the abuse of alcohol 
 and drugs, but does not include mental retardation which 
 is a condition of arrested or  incomplete development of 
 mind of a person, specially characterized by sub  
 normality of intelligence.
2.2.13. Nominee means the person named in the Policy  
 Schedule or as declared with the  Policyholder who is 
 nominated to receive the benefits under this Policy in  
 accordance with the terms of the Policy, if the Insured  
 Person is deceased.
2.2.14. Preventive Care means any kind of treatment taken as a 
 pro-active care measure without actual requirement or 
 symptoms of a disease or illness.
2.2.15. Policy means these Policy terms and conditions and  
 Annexures thereto, the Proposal Form, Policy Schedule 
 and Optional Cover (if applicable) which form part of the 
 Policy and shall be read together.
2.2.16. Policy Schedule is a certificate attached to and forming 
 part of this Policy.
2.2.17. Policy Year means a period of one year commencing on 
 the Policy Period Start Date or any anniversary thereof.
2.2.18. Policyholder (also referred as You) means the person  
 named in the Policy Schedule as the Policyholder. 
2.2.19. Policy Period means the period commencing from the 
 Policy Period Start Date and ending on the Policy Period 
 End Date of the Policy as specifically appearing in the 
 Policy Schedule.
2.2.20. Policy Period End Date means the date on which the  
 Policy expires, as specifically appearing  in the Policy  
 Schedule.
2.2.21. Policy Period Start Date means the date on which the 
 Policy commences, as specifically  appearing in the  
 Policy Schedule.
2.2.22. Rehabilitation means assisting an Insured Person who, 
 following a Medical Condition, requires assistance in  
 physical, vocational, independent living and educational 
 pursuits to restore him to the position in which he was in, 
 prior to such medical condition occurring.
2.2.23. Sum Insured means the amount specified in the Policy 
 Schedule, for which premium is paid by the Policyholder 
2.2.24. Single Private AC Room means an air conditioned  
 room in a Hospital where a single patient  along with  
 the attendant is accommodated and which has an  
 attached toilet (lavatory and  bath). Such room type shall 
 be the most basic and the most economical of all  
 accommodations available as a Single room in that  
 Hospital.
2.2.25. Third Party Administrator or TPA means a company 
 registered with the Authority, and  e n g a g e d  b y  a n   
 insurer, for a fee or by whatever name called and as may 
 be mentioned in the health services agreement, for  
 providing health services as mentioned under IRDAI  
 (TPA-Health Services) Regulations as amended from  
 time to time.
2.2.26. Associate Medical Expenses means those Medical  
 Expenses as listed below which vary in  a c c o r d a n c e   
 with the Room Rent or Room Category applicable in a 
 Hospital:
 (a) Room, boarding, nursing and operation theatre  
  expenses as charged by the Hospital where the  
  Insured Person availed medical treatment;
 (b) Fees charged by surgeon, anesthetist, Medical  
  Practitioner;
 Note: Associate Medical Expenses are not applied in  
 respect of the hospitals which do not follow differential 
 billing or for those expenses in respect of which  
 differential billing is not adopted based on the room  
 category.
3. Benefits Covered Under The Policy
 General Conditions Applicable To All The Benefits And 
 Optional Benefits
 1. Benefits / Optional Benefits (if opted) shall be  
  available to the Insured Person, only if the  
  particular Benefit / Optional Benefit are  
  specifically mentioned in the Policy Schedule.
 2. The maximum, total and cumulative liability of  
  the Company in respect of an Insured Person for 
  any and all Claims arising under this Policy during 
  the Policy Year shall not exceed the Sum Insured 
  as mentioned in the policy schedule against that 
  benefit for that Insured Person. 
  I. On Floater Basis, the Company's  
   maximum, total and cumulative liability,  
   for any and all Claims incurred during the 
   Policy Year in respect of all Insured  
   Persons, shall not exceed the Sum Insured 
   as mentioned in the policy schedule.  
  II. For any single Claim during a Policy Year, 
   the maximum Claim amount payable shall 
   be sum total of Sum Insured, No Claims  
   Bonus and Optional Benefit: Additional  
   S u m  I n s u r e d  f o r  A c c i d e n t a l
   Hospitalization. 
  III. All Claims shall be payable subject to the 
   terms, conditions, exclusions, sub-limits  
   and wait periods of the Policy and subject 
   to availability of the Sum Insured.
 3. The Co-payment proportion (if applicable) shall 
  be borne by the Insured Person on each Claim  
  which will be applicable on Benefit namely In- 
  patient Care, Day Care Treatment, Pre  
  Hospitalization Medical Expenses and Post  
  Hospitalization Medical Expenses, AYUSH
  Treatment, Domiciliary Hospitalization, Organ  
  Donor Cover, Ambulance Cover, Assisted  
5
Care Classic - CHIHLIP22071V012122

--- PAGE 7 ---

6
 Reproductive Treatment, Optional Benefit: Additional 
 Sum Insured for Accidental Hospitalization, Optional  
 Benefit: Air Ambulance Cover and Optional Benefit:  
 Maternity & New Born Cover.
 I. At the time of issue of the first Policy with the  
  Company, if Age of Insured Person or eldest  
  Insured Person (in case of Floater) is 61 Years or 
  above, such Insured Person or all Insured Person 
  (in case of Floater) shall bear a Co-payment of  
  20% per Claim (over & above any other co- 
  payment, if any).
4. Deductible Option (if opted) is applicable on the  
 Benefits namely In-patient Care, Day Care Treatment, 
 Pre Hospitalization Medical Expenses and Post  
 Hospitalization Medical Expenses, AYUSH Treatment, 
 Domiciliary Hospitalization, Organ Donor Cover,  
 Ambulance Cover, Assisted Reproductive Treatment,  
 Optional Benefit: Additional Sum Insured for Accidental 
 Hospitalization, Optional Benefit: Air Ambulance Cover 
 and Optional Benefit: Maternity & New Born Cover.
5. Any Claim paid for Benefits namely In-patient Care,  
 Day Care Treatment, Pre Hospitalization Medical  
 Expenses and Post Hospitalization Medical Expenses,  
 AYUSH Treatments, Domiciliary Hospitalization,
 Organ Donor Cover, Ambulance Cover, Assisted  
 Reproductive Treatment, Compassionate Travel and  
 Optional Benefit: Maternity & New Born Cover shall  
 reduce the Sum Insured for the Policy Year and only the 
 balance shall be available for all the future claims for that 
 Policy Year. 
6. Admissibility of a Claim under Benefit “In-patient Care 
 and/or Day Care Treatment” is a pre-condition to the  
 admission of a Claim under Pre Hospitalization Medical 
 Expenses and Post Hospitalization Medical expenses,  
 Organ Donor Cover, Ambulance Cover, Compassionate 
 Travel, Optional Benefit: Additional Sum Insured for  
 Accidental Hospitalization, Optional Benefit: Air  
 Ambulance Cover  and Optional Benefit: Maternity & 
 New Born Cover and the event giving rise to a Claim  
 under Benefit “In-patient Care and/or Day Care  
 Treatment” shall be within the Policy Period for the  
 Claim of such Benefit to be accepted.
7. If the Insured Person suffers a relapse within 45 days  
 from the date of last discharge / consultation from the  
 Hospital for which a Claim has been made, then such  
 relapse shall be deemed to be part of the same Claim and 
 all the limits of Per Claim Limit under this Policy shall be 
 applied as if they were under a single Claim.
8. Option of Mid-term inclusion of a Person in the Policy 
 will be only upon marriage or child birth. Additional  
 differential premium will be calculated on a pro rata  
 basis.
9. Coverage amount for Optional Benefit: OPD Care,  
 Optional Benefit: Additional Sum Insured for Accidental 
 Hospitalization, Optional Benefit: Home Care, Optional 
 Benefit: Disease Management Programs and Optional  
 Benefit: Air Ambulance are covered over and above the 
 'Sum Insured'.  
10. Coverage under Optional Benefit: Home Care, Optional 
 Benefit: Disease Management Programs shall be offered 
 on Individual basis
3.1. Base Benefits
3.1.1 Benefit : Hospitalization Expenses 
 If an Insured Person is diagnosed with an illness or  
 suffers an injury and which requires the Insured Person 
 to be admitted in a Hospital in India which should be  
 Medically Necessary during the Policy Period and while 
 the Policy is in force for: 
 (i) Benefit: In-patient Care: The Company will  
  indemnify the Insured Person for Medical  
  Expenses incurred towards Hospitalization
  through Cashless or Reimbursement Facility,  
  maximum up to the Sum Insured, as specified in 
  the Policy Schedule, provided that the  
  Hospitalization is for a minimum period of 24  
  consecutive hours and was prescribed in writing, 
  by a Medical Practitioner, and the Medical  
  Expenses incurred are Reasonable and Customary 
  Charges that were Medically Necessary. 
 (ii) Benefit: Day Care Treatment: The Company  
  will indemnify the Insured Person for Medical  
  Expenses incurred on all Day Care Treatments  
  through Cashless or Reimbursement Facility,  
  maximum up to the Sum Insured ,as specified in 
  the Policy Schedule, provided that the period of 
  treatment of the Insured Person in the  
  Hospital/Day Care Centre does not exceed 24  
  hours, which would otherwise require an in- 
  patient admission and such Day Care Treatments 
  was prescribed in written, by a Medical  
  Practitioner, and the Medical Expenses incurred 
  are Reasonable and Customary Charges that were 
  Medically Necessary.
 (iii) Benefit : Pre-Hospitalization Medical
  Expenses and Post-Hospitalization Medical  
  Expenses
  1. Pre-Hospitalization Medical Expenses:
   The Company will indemnify the Insured 
   Person for Medical Expenses incurred  
   which are Medically Necessary, only  
   through Reimbursement Facility,
   maximum up to the amount as specified in 
   t h e  P o l i c y  S c h e d u l e ,  f o r  P r e -
   hospitalization Medical Expenses, for a  
   period of 60 days immediately prior to the 
   Insured Person's date of admission to the  
   Hospital, subject to the conditions  
   specified below:
   i. Provided that the Company shall not be 
    liable to make payment for any Pre- 
    hospitalization Medical Expenses that  
    were incurred before the Policy Start  
    Date; 
   ii. Provided that the Medical Expenses so 
    incurred are related to the same  
    Illness/Injury for which the Company  
    has accepted the Insured Person's Claim 
    under Benefit 'Hospitalization  
    Expenses'.
  2. Post Hospitalization Medical Expenses:
Care Classic - CHIHLIP22071V012122

--- PAGE 8 ---

7
   The Company will indemnify the Insured 
   Person for Medical Expenses incurred  
   towards Consultant fees, Diagnostic
   charges, Medicines and drugs, only  
   through Reimbursement Facility,
   maximum up to the amount as specified in 
   the Policy Schedule, for Post-
   hospitalization Medical Expenses, for a  
   period of 90 days immediately after the  
   Insured Person's date of discharge from the 
   Hospital, subject to the conditions  
   specified below:
   i. Provided that the Medical Expenses so 
    incurred are related to the same  
    Illness/Injury for which the Company  
    has accepted the Insured Person's Claim 
    under Benefit 'Hospitalization  
   Expenses'.
   ii. Claim documents to be submitted  
    within 30 days after completion of 90  
    days from the date of discharge from  
    Hospital.
  Notes:
  If the provisions of Clause 6.1.7 (Payment terms) 
  is applicable to a Claim, then:
  a) The date of admission to Hospital for the  
   purpose of this Benefit shall be the date of 
   the first admission to the Hospital for the  
   Illness deemed or Injury sustained to be  
   Any One Illness; and 
  b) The date of discharge from Hospital for the 
   purpose of this Benefit shall be the last date 
   of discharge from the Hospital in relation to 
   the Illness deemed or Injury sustained to be 
   Any One Illness. 
 (iv) Benefit : AYUSH Treatment
  The Company will indemnify the Insured Person, 
  through Cashless or Reimbursement Facility, up 
  to the limit/amount specified in the Policy  
  Schedule, towards Medical Expenses incurred  
  with respect to the Insured Person's medical  
  treatment undergone at any AYUSH Hospitals or 
  health care facilities for any of the listed AYUSH 
  treatments namely Ayurveda, Sidha, Unani and  
  Homeopathy, subject to the conditions specified 
  below:
  (i) A Claim will be admissible under this  
   Benefit only if the Claim is admissible  
   under Benefit 'In-patient Care'.
  (ii) Medical Treatment should be rendered  
   from a registered Medical Practitioner who 
   holds a valid practicing license in respect of 
   such AYUSH Treatments; and
  (iii) Such treatment taken is within the  
   jurisdiction of India; and
  (iv) Clause 4.2 (12) under Permanent  
   Exclusions, is superseded to the extent  
   covered under this Benefit.
 (v) Benefit : Domiciliary Hospitalization
  The Company will indemnify the Insured Person, 
  only through Reimbursement Facility, up to the  
  amount specified against this Benefit in the Policy 
  Schedule, for the Medical Expenses incurred  
  towards Domiciliary Hospitalization, i.e.,
  Coverage extended when Medically Necessary  
  treatment is taken at home (as explained in  
  Definition 2.1.15), subject to the conditions  
  specified below:
  (i) The Domiciliary Hospitalization continues 
   for a period exceeding 3 consecutive days.
  (ii) The Medical Expenses are incurred during 
   the Policy Year.
  (iii) The Medical Expenses are Reasonable and 
   Customary Charges which are necessarily 
   incurred.
  (iv) Any Pre Hospitalization Medical Expenses 
   and Post Hospitalization Medical Expenses 
   shall be payable under this Benefit.
  (v) Coverage for Domiciliary Hospitalization 
   through AYUSH Treatment is limited to  
   and within the amount specified for  
   Benefit: AYUSH Treatment under clause  
   3.1.1 (iv)
  (vi) Any Medical Expenses incurred for the  
   treatment in relation to any of the following 
   diseases shall not be payable under this  
   Benefit :
   1. Asthma;
   2. Bronchitis;
   3. Chronic Nephritis and Chronic  
   Nephritic Syndrome; 
   4. Diarrhoea and all types of Dysenteries 
    including Gastro-enteritis;
   5. Diabetes Mellitus and Diabetes  
   Insipidus;
   6. Epilepsy;
   7. Hypertension; 
   8. Influenza, cough or cold;
   9. All Psychiatric or Psychosomatic  
   Disorders;
   10.Pyrexia of unknown origin; 
   11.Tonsillitis and Upper Respiratory Tract 
    Infection including Laryngitis and  
   Pharyngitis;
   12. Arthritis, Gout and Rheumatism.
 (vi) Benefit : Organ Donor Cover 
  The Company will indemnify the Insured Person, 
  through Cashless or Reimbursement Facility, up 
  to the limit specified against this Benefit in the  
  Policy Schedule, for the Medical Expenses  
  incurred in respect of the donor, for any organ  
  transplant surgery during the Policy Year, subject 
Care Classic - CHIHLIP22071V012122

--- PAGE 9 ---

8
  to the conditions specified below:
  (i) The Organ donor is an eligible donor in  
   accordance with The Transplantation of  
   Human Organs Act, 1994 (amended) and  
   other applicable laws and rules.
  (ii) The Insured Person is the recipient of the 
   Organ so donated by the Organ Donor.
  (iii) The Company will not be liable to pay the 
   Medical Expenses incurred by the Insured 
   P e r s o n  t o w a r d s  b e n e f i t  ' P r e -
   Hospitalization Medical Expenses and Post 
   Hospitalization Medical Expenses' or any 
   other Medical Expenses in respect of the  
   donor consequent to the harvesting.
  (iv) The provision mentioned under clause  
   no.3.1.1 (vii) holds good for this benefit.
 (vii) C o n d i t i o n s  a p p l i c a b l e  f o r B e n e f i t    
  “Hospitalization Expenses” :
   a) Room, boarding and nursing expenses as  
   charged by the Hospital where the Insured 
   Person availed medical treatment (Room  
   Rent / Room Category):
   i. If the Insured Person is admitted in a  
    Hospital room where the Room  
    Category opted or Room Rent incurred 
    is higher than the eligible Room  
    Category/ Room Rent as specified in the 
    Policy Schedule, then, 
    I. The Policyholder/Insured Person  
    shall bear the ratable proportion of  
    t h e  t o t a l  A s s o c i a t e  M e d i c a l
     Expenses (including applicable
     surcharge and taxes thereon) in the 
     proportion of the difference between 
     the Room Rent actually incurred and 
     the Room Rent specified in the
     Policy Schedule or the Room Rent of 
     the entitled Room Category to the  
     Room Rent actually incurred.
    The Policy Schedule will specify the  
    eligibility of Room Rent or Room  
    Category applicable for the Insured  
    Person under the Policy. The Room  
    Rent or Room Category available under 
    this Policy is mentioned as follows:
   ii. Single Private AC Room If the Policy 
    Schedule states 'Single Private AC  
    Room' as eligible Room Category, it  
    means the maximum eligible Room  
    Category in case of Hospitalization of  
    the Insured Person payable by the  
    Company is limited to stay in a Single 
    AC Private Room. 
   iii. If the Policy Schedule states 'up to 1% of 
    the Sum Insured per day' as eligible  
    Room Rent, it means the maximum  
    eligible Room Rent of the Insured  
    Person payable by the Company is  
    limited to 1% of the Sum Insured per  
    day of Hospitalization. Any amount  
    accrued under “No Claims Bonus”,  
    shall not be considered under this  
    “Room Rent” limit.
   iv. The nomenclature of Room categories 
    may vary from one hospital to the other. 
    Hence, the final consideration will be as 
    per the definition of the Rooms  
    mentioned in the Policy.
    b) Intensive Care Unit Charges (ICU Charges):
  The Policy Schedule will specify the Limit of ICU 
  Charges applicable for the Insured Person under 
  the Policy. The ICU Charges available under this 
  Policy are as follows:
  i. If the Policy Schedule states 'up to 2% of 
   the Sum Insured per day' as eligible ICU  
   Charges per day of Hospitalization, it  
   means the maximum eligible ICU charges 
   of the Insured Person payable by the  
   Company is limited to 2% of the Sum  
   Insured per day of Hospitalization.
  ii. If the Policy Schedule states the eligibility 
   of ICU Charges of the Insured Person as 'no 
   limit', it means that there is no separate  
   restriction on ICU Charges incurred  
   t o w a r d s  s t a y  i n  I C U  d u r i n g
   Hospitalization.
 (viii) Expenses incurred on treatment for Cataract 
  Treatment
  The Company will indemnify the Insured Person 
  for Expenses incurred in respect of Cataract  
  treatment up to the amount specified against  
  Cataract Treatment mentioned in the Policy  
  Schedule in a Policy Year, provided that the  
  treatment was taken on the advice of a Medical  
  Practitioner.
 (ix) Advance Technology Methods:
  The Company will indemnify the Insured Person 
  up to the specified limit, as specified in the Policy 
  Schedule, for expenses incurred under Benefit 'In-
  patient Care and/or Day Care Treatment' for  
  treatment taken through following advance  
  technology methods:
  A. Uterine Artery Embolization and HIFU 
  B. Balloon Sinuplasty 
  C. Deep Brain stimulation 
  D. Oral chemotherapy
  E. Immunotherapy- Monoclonal Antibody to 
   be given as injection
  F. Intra vitreal injections 
  G. Robotic surgeries
  H. Stereotactic radio surgeries
  I. Bronchical Thermoplasty 
  J. Vaporisation of the prostrate (Green laser 
   treatment or holmium laser treatment) 
Care Classic - CHIHLIP22071V012122

--- PAGE 10 ---

9
  K. IONM - (Intra Operative Neuro  
   Monitoring) 
  L. Stem cell therapy: Hematopoietic stem  
   cells for bone marrow transplant for  
   haematological conditions to be covered.
3.1.2 Benefit : Ambulance Cover
 The Company will indemnify the Insured Person,  
 through Cashless or Reimbursement Facility, up to the 
 amount specified against this Benefit in the Policy  
 Schedule, provided that the Medical Expenses so  
 incurred are related to the Illness or Injury for which the 
 Company has accepted the Insured Person's Claim under 
 Benefit 'Hospitalization Expenses' and subject to  
 conditions as specified below:
 (i) Such ambulance transportation is offered by a  
  Hospital or by an Ambulance service provider for 
  the Insured Person's necessary transportation; and
 (ii) Such Transportation is from the place of  
  occurrence of Medical Emergency of the Insured 
  person, to the nearest Hospital; and/or
 (iii) Such Transportation is from one Hospital to  
  another Hospital for the purpose of providing  
  better Medical aid to the Insured Person subject to 
  treating Medical Practitioner certification.
3.1.3 Benefit: No Claims Bonus (NCB):
 At the end of each Policy Year, the Company will  
 enhance the Sum Insured by 25% flat, on a cumulative 
 basis, as a No Claims Bonus for each completed and  
 continuous Policy Year, provided that no Claim has been 
 paid by the Company in the expiring Policy Year, and  
 subject to the conditions specified below:
 (i) In any Policy Year, the accrued No Claims Bonus, 
  shall not exceed 150% of the Sum Insured  
  available in the expiring Policy or renewed Policy, 
  wherever Sum Insured is lower;
 (ii) The No Claims Bonus shall be available on  
  Floater basis and shall accrue only if no Claim has 
  been made in respect of any Insured Person during 
  the expiring Policy Year. The No Claims Bonus  
  which is accrued during the claim-free Policy  
  Year will only be available to those Insured  
  Persons who were insured in such claim-free  
  Policy Year and continue to be insured in the  
  subsequent Policy Year;
 (iii) The entire No Claims Bonus will be forfeited if  
  the Policy is not continued / renewed on or before 
  Policy Period End Date or the expiry of the Grace 
  Period whichever is later;
 (iv) The No Claims Bonus shall be applicable on an 
  annual basis subject to continuation of the Policy;
 (v) If the Insured Persons in the expiring policy are 
  covered on Individual basis and thus have  
  accumulated the No Claims Bonus for each  
  Insured Person in the expiring policy, and such  
  expiring policy is migrated/ported to this policy, 
  then the No Claims Bonus to be carried forward 
  for credit in this Policy would be the least No  
  Claims Bonus amongst all the Insured Persons;
 (vi) If the Insured Persons in the expiring policy are 
  covered on a Floater basis and such Insured  
  Persons renew their expiring Policy with the  
  Company by splitting the Floater Sum Insured in 
  to 2 (two) or more Floater, then the No Claims  
  Bonus of the expiring Policy shall be apportioned 
  to such renewed Policy in the proportion of the  
  Sum Insured of each of the renewed Policy;
 (vii) In the event of a Claim occurring during any  
  Policy Year, the accrued No Claims Bonus will be 
  reduced at same rate at which it is accrued at the 
  commencement of next Policy Year;
 (viii) In case Sum Insured under the Policy is reduced at 
  the time of renewal, the applicable No Claims  
  Bonus shall also be reduced in proportion to the 
  Sum Insured;
 (ix) In case Sum Insured under the Policy is increased 
  at the time of renewal, the No Claims Bonus shall 
  be calculated on the Sum Insured applicable on  
  the last completed Policy Year;
 (x) The 'Unlimited Automatic Recharge' amount   
  shall not be considered while calculating 'No  
  Claims Bonus';
 (xi) Accrued 'No Claims Bonus' can be utilized for  
  Benefit 'In-patient Care' 'Day Care Treatment'  
  'Pre-Hospitalization Medical Expenses and Post-
  Hospitalization Medical Expenses', 'AYUSH
  Treatment', 'Domiciliary Hospitalization', 'Organ 
  Donor Cover', 'Ambulance Cover', 'Assisted  
  Reproductive Treatment', 'Compassionate Travel' 
  and 'Optional Benefits: Maternity & New Born  
  Cover' under the Policy.
 (xii) In case no claim (other than Benefit: 'Second  
  Opinion', 'Unlimited E-Consultations', 'Other
  Value Added Services', Optional Benefits - 'OPD 
  Care', 'International Second Opinion', 'Disease  
  Management Programs' and 'Annual Health  
  Check-up') is made in a particular Policy Year, No 
  Claims Bonus would be credited automatically to 
  the subsequent Policy year, even in case of multi-
  year Policies (with 2 or 3 year policy tenure).
3.1.4 Benefit : Second Opinion
 In the event that the Insured Person is diagnosed with any 
 Major Illness / Injury during the Policy Year, then at the 
 Insured Person's request, the Company shall arrange for 
 a Second Opinion from a Medical Practitioner within  
 India. 
 (i) It is agreed and understood that the Second  
  Opinion will be based only on the information and 
  documentation provided to the Company which 
  will be shared with the Medical Practitioner and is 
  subject to the conditions specified below:
  a) This Benefit can be availed only once by an 
   Insured Person during the Policy Year for 
   each Major Illness / Injury.
  b) The Insured Person is free to choose  
   whether or not to obtain the Second  
   Opinion and, if obtained under this Benefit, 
   then whether or not to act on it.
Care Classic - CHIHLIP22071V012122

--- PAGE 11 ---

10
  c) This Benefit is for additional information 
   purposes only and does not and should not 
   be deemed to substitute the Insured  
   Person's visit or consultation to an  
   independent Medical Practitioner.
  d) The Company does not provide a Second 
   Opinion or make any representation as to 
   the adequacy or accuracy of the same, the 
   Insured Person's or any other person's  
   reliance on the same or the use to which the 
   Second Opinion is put.
  e) The Company does not assume any  
   liability for and shall not be responsible for 
   any actual or alleged errors, omissions or 
   representations made by any Medical  
   Practitioner or in any Second Opinion or  
   for any consequences of actions taken or  
   not taken in reliance thereon. 
  f) The Policyholder or Insured Person shall  
   hold the Company harmless for any loss or 
   damage caused by or arising out of or in  
   relation to any opinion, advice,  
   prescription, actual or alleged errors,  
   omissions or representations made by the 
   Medical Practitioner or for any  
   consequences of any action taken or not  
   taken in reliance thereon.
  g) Any Second Opinion provided under this 
   Benefit shall not be valid for any medico-
   legal purposes.
  h) The Second Opinion does not entitle the  
   Insured Person to any consultation from or 
   further opinions from that Medical  
   Practitioner. 
 (ii) For the purposes of this Benefit only:
  a) Second Opinion means an additional  
   medical opinion obtained by the Company 
   from a Medical Practitioner solely on the 
   Policyholder's or Insured Person's express 
   request in relation to Major Illness / Injury 
   which the Insured Person has been  
   diagnosed with during the Policy Year. 
  b) Major Illness / Injury means one of the  
   following only:
   1. Benign Brain Tumor
   2. Cancer
   3. End Stage Lung Failure
   4. Myocardial Infarction
   5. Coronary Artery Bypass Graft
   6. Heart Valve Replacement
   7. Coma
   8. End Stage Renal Failure
   9. Stroke
   10. Major Organ Transplant
   11. Paralysis
   12. Motor Neuron Disorder
   13. Multiple Sclerosis
   14. Major Burns
   15. Total Blindness
3.1.5 Benefit : Unlimited Automatic Recharge
 If a Claim is payable under the Policy, then the Company 
 agrees to automatically make the re-instatement of up to 
 the base Sum Insured unlimited times in a policy year  
 which is valid for that Policy Year only, subject to the  
 conditions specified below:
 (i) The Recharge shall be utilized only after the base 
  Sum Insured, 'No Claims Bonus' and 'Additional 
  Sum Insured for Accidental Hospitalization' has 
  been completely exhausted in that Policy Year.
 (ii) A Claim will be admissible under the Recharge  
  only if the Claim is admissible under Benefit  
  'Hospitalization Expenses'.
 (iii) Recharge amount can be utilized for same illness 
  as well as different Illnesses except for claim  
  under Any one Illness condition.
 (iv) The Sum Insured available under Unlimited  
  Automatic Recharge can only be utilized for  
  Benefit 'In-patient Care' 'Day Care Treatment'  
  (except Advance Technology Methods), 'Pre  
  Hospitalization Medical Expenses and Post  
  Hospitalization Medical Expenses', 'Ambulance 
  Cover', 'Domiciliary Hospitalization' Optional  
  Benefit 'Maternity & New Born Cover'.
 (v) All Insured Person will be eligible to utilize the  
  Recharged amount for any illness or injury  
  pertaining to that Policy Year.  
 (vi) No Claims Bonus' shall not be considered while 
  calculating 'Unlimited Automatic Recharge'.
 (vii) Any unutilized Recharge cannot be carried  
  forward to any subsequent Policy Year.
3.1.6 Benefit : Unlimited E-Consultation
 The Company shall offer unlimited e-consultations with 
 qualified General Physicians at our network during the 
 Policy Year through any mode of communication  
 (Voice/Video Call /Chat /Email Chat/etc.).
3.1.7 Benefit: Assisted Reproductive Treatment
 The Company will indemnify the Insured Person, only 
 through Reimbursement Facility, up to the amount  
 specified against this Benefit in the Policy Schedule, for 
 the medically necessary Expenses incurred towards  
 Assisted Reproductive Treatment, where indicated for  
 sub-fertility, subject to the conditions specified below:
 i. A waiting period of 36 months from the date of  
  first inception of this policy with the Company for 
  the insured person.
 ii. This benefit is payable only once at every block of 
  3 years subject to policy renewal.
 iii. To eligible for this benefit both husband and  
  spouse shall continuously covered under this  
  Policy at every block.
Care Classic - CHIHLIP22071V012122

--- PAGE 12 ---

11
 iv. Clause 4.1 (14) under Permanent Exclusions, is  
  superseded to the extent covered under this  
  Benefit.
 Additional Exclusions applicable to any Claim under 
 this Benefit:
 1. Pre and Post Hospitalization medical expenses 
 2. Sub-fertility services that are deemed to be  
  unproven, experimental or investigational
 3. Services not in accordance with standards of good 
  medical practice and not uniformly recognized  
  and professionally endorsed by the general  
  medical community at the time it is to be provided 
 4. Reversal of voluntary sterilization 
 5. Treatment undergone for second or subsequent  
  pregnancies except where the child from the first 
  delivery/ previous deliveries is/are not alive at the 
  time of treatment 
 6. Payment for services rendered to a surrogate 
 7. Costs associated with cryopreservation and  
  storage of sperm, eggs and embryos
 8. Selective termination of an embryo. 
 9. Services done at unrecognized centre 
 10. Surgery / procedures that enhances fertility like  
  Tubal Occlusion, Bariatric Surgery, Diagnostic  
  Laparoscopy with Ovarian Drilling and such  
  other similar surgery / procedures
3.1.8 Benefit: Compassionate Travel
 In the event of the Insured Person being hospitalized for 
 a life threatening emergency at a place away from his  
 usual place of residence (as recorded in the Policy), then 
 the Company will indemnify, only through  
 Reimbursement Facility, up to the amount specified  
 against this Benefit in the Policy Schedule towards  
 transportation expenses incurred by an Immediate  
 Family Member (one adult) by Air / train for travel  
 towards the place where hospital is located where such 
 travel taken shall be atleast 100 kms from the city of  
 residence , provided that:
 i. The claim is admissible under In-Patient Care  
  (Clause 3.1.1 (i))  ;and
 ii. The treating Medical Practitioner prescribes that 
  the attendance of an Immediate Family Member is 
  necessary during the hospitalization of the  
  Insured; and Insured's Immediate Family  
  Member (one adult) travel from the City of  
  Residence should commence within the period of 
  hospitalization of the Insured for which period  
  his/her presence is necessary; and
 iii. The claim under this Cover will be admissible  
  provided that no adult member of Insured's  
  Immediate Family is present at the place of  
  Insured's hospitalization.
3.1.9 Benefit : Other Value Added Services
 The Company shall provide the following Services:
 Health Portal: The Insured Person may access health 
 related information and services such as Doctor on chat, 
 Healthy tips reminder, Digital locker for medical records 
 etc. as available on the Company's website.
 Discount Connect: The Insured Person may access to 
 Special rates for OPD, Diagnostics, and Pharmacy etc. 
 through Network as available on the Company's website.
3.2. Optional Benefits:
 The Policy provides the following Optional Benefits  
 which can be opted either at the inception of the policy or 
 at the time of renewal. The Policy Schedule will specify 
 the Optional Benefits that are in force for the Insured  
 Persons.
3.2.1 Optional Benefit : Smart Select
 If this Optional Benefit is opted, then Policyholder is  
 entitled for a discount on the total premium (which  
 includes premium of base Benefits, Optional Benefit  
 Additional Sum Insured for Accidental Hospitalization 
 and Optional Benefit 'Maternity & New Born Cover)  
 payable as specified in the Policy Schedule, subject to 
 following conditions:
 (i) If the Insured Person takes Medical Treatment in 
  hospitals other than those listed in Annexure – III 
  to the Policy Terms and Conditions, then the  
  Policyholder/Insured Person shall bear a Co- 
  Payment of 20% on each and every Claim arising 
  in such regard, which will be in addition to any  
  other co-payment (if any) applicable in the Policy. 
 (ii) However, no such additional co-payment shall be 
  applicable if treatment is availed in the hospitals 
  listed in Annexure III to the Policy Terms and  
  Conditions. 
 NOTE: For an updated list of Hospitals mentioned under 
 Annexure – III to the Policy Terms and Conditions, the 
 Policyholder / Insured Person should refer to the  
 Company's Website https://www.careinsurance.com/ 
3.2.2 Optional Benefit : Deductible Option
 If this Optional Benefit is opted, then Policyholder is  
 entitled for a discount on the Premium payable.
 (i) The claim amount assessed by the Company for a 
  particular claim shall be reduced by the  
  Deductible as specified in the Policy Schedule  
  and the Company shall be liable to make payment 
  under the Policy for any Claim only when the  
  Deductible on that Claim is exhausted.
 (ii) The Deductible shall be applicable on an  
  aggregate basis for all Claims made by the Insured 
  Person in a Policy Year. 
 (iii) Illustration for applicability of Deductible in the 
  same Policy Year:
                                                                                                              
Care Classic - CHIHLIP22071V012122

--- PAGE 13 ---

3.2.3 Optional Benefit : Copayment Waiver
 If this Optional Benefit is opted then, the mandatory co-
 payment of 20% which is applicable to Insured Person 
 whose entry age is 61 Years or above shall be waived off.
3.2.4 Optional Benefit : Room Rent and ICU Modification
 Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Policy, 
 by choosing this Optional Benefit, the Company agrees 
 to upgrade the eligibility of Room Rent / Room Category 
 from '1% of SI per day' to 'Single Private AC Room',  
 similarly ICU Charges limit from '2% of SI per day' to 
 'No limit'
 Note: This Optional Benefit is applicable only for  
 Insured Person whose SI is less than 5Lakhs.
3.2.5 Optional Benefit : OPD Care
 The Company will indemnify the Insured Person,  
 through Reimbursement/Cashless Facility, for availing 
 Out-Patient Consultations and Diagnostic
 Examinations, up to the amount/limit specified against 
 this Optional Benefit in the Policy Schedule, during the 
 Policy Year.
 The above benefit is subject to the following  
 conditions:
 1. All the valid OPD claim expenses incurred by the 
  Insured Person in a policy year will be payable / 
  reimbursed by the Company. However, claim can 
  be filed with the Company, only quarterly during 
  that Policy Year, as and when that insured may  
  deem fit. However, claimant will be allowed only 
  1 more filing within 30 days after the Policy Year.
 2. Clause 4.2 (10) under Permanent Exclusions, is  
  superseded to the extent covered under this  
  Benefit.
3.2.6 Optional Benefit : International Second Opinion
 “International Second Opinion” is an extension to  
 Benefit : Second Opinion and hence all the provisions  
 stated under Clause 3.1.4, holds good for this benefit as 
 well, except that the geographical scope of coverage  
 through this Optional Benefit is applicable to worldwide 
 excluding India only.
3.2.7 Optional Benefit: Additional Sum Insured for  
 Accidental Hospitalization
 In case any Claim is made for Emergency Care of any 
 Injury due to an Accident during the Policy Period, the 
 Company shall automatically provide an additional Sum 
 Insured equal to the Sum Insured for In-patient Care for 
 that Insured Person who is hospitalized, provided that:
 (i) The 'Additional Sum Insured for Accidental  
  Hospitalization' shall be utilized only after the  
  Sum Insured has been completely exhausted;
 (ii) The total amount payable under this Optional  
  Benefit shall not exceed the sum total of the Sum 
  Insured, No Claims Bonus and 'additional Sum  
  Insured for Accidental Hospitalization';
 (iii) The 'Additional Sum Insured for Accidental  
  Hospitalization' shall be available only for such  
  Insured Person for whom Claim for
  Hospitalization following the Accident has been 
  accepted under the Policy;
 (iv) The 'Additional Sum Insured for Accidental  
  Hospitalization' shall be applied only once during 
  the Policy Period.
3.2.8 Optional Benefit : Sub-Limit on Specified Diseases
 If this Optional Benefit is opted, then Policyholder is  
 entitled for a discount on the Premium payable and there 
 shall be sub-limits on listed treatments and procedures 
 up to the amount specified against each treatment and  
 procedures in the Policy Schedule and Company's  
 liability shall be limited to such extent.
 Listed Treatments and Procedures are as follows:
 i. Treatment of Total Knee Replacement.
 ii. Surgery for treatment of all types of Hernia
 iii. Hysterectomy
 iv. Surgeries for Benign Prostate Hypertrophy (BPH)
 v. Surgical treatment of stones of renal system
 vi. Tr e a t m e n t  o f  C e r e b r o v a s c u l a r  a n d     
  Cardiovascular disorders
 vii. Treatments/Surgeries for Cancer
 viii. Treatment of other renal complications and  
  Disorders
 ix. Treatment for breakage of bones
 Note:  The above Optional Benefit can be opted only if 
 this policy is issued for the first time with the Company.
3.2.9 Optional Benefit: Home Care
 (a) The Company will indemnify the Insured Person 
  for the expenses incurred up to the limit as  
  specified in the Policy Schedule towards the  
  hiring of a Qualified Nurse with the purpose of  
  providing necessary care and convenience to the 
  Insured Person to perform his necessary daily  
  activities, which facilitate his necessary activities 
  of daily living and are recommended and certified 
  by a Medical Practitioner to be necessary in  
12
Care Classic - CHIHLIP22071V012122
Case Sum 
Insured
Deductible Claim 1 Claim 2 Claim 3
2 4,50,000 15,00,000 30,00,000
3 5,00,000 10,00,000 40,00,000 40,00,000
1 25,00,000 5,00,000 3,50,000 12,50,000 10,00,000
25,00,000
Case Sum 
Insured
Deductible Payable 1 Payable 2 Payable 3
2 - 14,50,000 10,50,000
3 5,00,000 20,00,000 Claim not 
payable as 
SI is 
exhausted
1 - 11,00,000 10,00,00025,00,000 5,00,000
25,00,000 5,00,000
25,00,000 5,00,000
5,00,00025,00,000

--- PAGE 14 ---

13
  writing, provided that:
 i. The Company shall not be liable to make payment 
  under this Optional Benefit for the first day of  
  hiring the Qualified Nurse in respect of an  
  Illness/Injury; 
 ii. The Company shall not be liable to make payment 
  under this Optional Benefit for more than 7  
  consecutive days arising from Any One Illness or 
  Injury; and
 iii. The Company shall not be liable to make payment 
  under this Optional Benefit for more than 45 days 
  per Policy Year per Insured Person.
3.2.10 Optional Benefit: Instant Cover
 Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Policy, If 
 Insured Person has PED (Pre-Existing Disease) related 
 to Diabetes/ Hypertension/ Hyperlipidimia/ Asthma at 
 the time of issuance of first Policy with the Company,  
 then by choosing this Optional Benefit, the applicable  
 PED (Pre-Existing Disease) waiting period shall be  
 waived off on Diabetes/ Hypertension/ Hyperlipidimia/ 
 Asthma.
 Note: The above Optional Benefit can be opted only if 
 this policy is issued for the first time with the Company.
3.2.11 Optional Benefit: Disease Management Programs 
 Insured Person has an option to opt any of the following 
 listed Disease Management Program: 
 i. Asthma: The Company will indemnify the  
  Insured Person for expenses incurred related to  
  Asthma for consultation, pharmacy up to the  
  amount/limit specified in the Policy Schedule and 
  for diagnostic tests as specified below:
  i. Chest X-ray
  ii. Spirometry test
  iii. Physiotherapy
 ii. Diabetes Mellitus: The Company will indemnify 
  the Insured Person for expenses incurred related 
  to Diabetes for consultation, pharmacy up to the 
  amount/limit specified in the policy schedule and 
  for diagnostic tests as specified below:
  i. HBA1c
  ii. Urine proteins – microalbuminuria
  iii. Electrolytes
 iii. Hypertension: The Company will indemnify the 
  Insured Person for expenses incurred related to  
  Hypertension for consultation, pharmacy up to  
  the amount/limit specified in the policy schedule 
  and for diagnostic tests as specified below:
  i. Electrolytes
  ii. Urine proteins – microalbuminuria
  iii. 2D-Echo
 iv. Hyperlipidimia: The Company will indemnify  
  the Insured Person for expenses incurred related 
  to Hyperlipidimia for consultation, pharmacy up 
  to the amount/limit specified in the policy  
  schedule and for diagnostic tests as specified  
  below:
  i. SGOT
  ii. SGPT
  Note: 
  i. This Optional Benefit shall be available  
   only to those Insured Persons who are of  
   Age 18 years or above on the Policy Period 
   Start Date
  ii. All the Diagnostic tests under Disease  
   Management Program can be availed only 
   at the Company's network
  iii. The Insured Person can avail maximum 4 
   consultations in a year under each Disease 
   Management Program.
3.2.12 Optional Benefit: Waiver of Sub-limits on Cataract 
 & Advance Technology Methods Treatments
 Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Policy, 
 by choosing this Optional Benefit the sub-limits on  
 Cataract and Advance Technology Methods as  
 mentioned in Clause 3.1.1 (viii) & (ix) shall be waived 
 off.
 Note: 
 i. The above Optional Benefit can be opted only if 
  this policy is issued for the first time with the  
  Company.
 ii. In case of Migration, this Optional Benefit shall 
  only available for those policies where there is no 
  sub-limit on diseases as specified in clause no.  
  Clause 3.1.1 (viii) & (ix).
3.2.13 Optional Benefit : Air Ambulance Cover
 The Company will indemnify the Insured Person up to 
 the limit specified against this Optional Benefit in the  
 Policy Schedule, for the Reasonable and Customary  
 Charges necessarily incurred on availing Air Ambulance 
 services, in India, offered by a Hospital or by an  
 Ambulance service provider for the Insured Person's  
 necessary transportation, provided that:
 (i) The treating Medical Practitioner certifies in  
  writing that the severity or the nature of the  
  Insured Person's Illness or Injury warrants the  
  Insured Person's requirement for Air Ambulance;
 (ii) The transportation expenses under this Optional 
  Benefit include transportation from the place of 
  occurrence of Medical Emergency of the Insured 
  person, to the nearest Hospital; and/or  
  transportation from one Hospital to another  
  Hospital for the purpose of providing better  
  Medical aid to the Insured Person, following an 
  Emergency;
 (iii) This benefit will be extended only through  
  Cashless Facility, if the costs are certified and  
  authorized by the Company in advance. In case  
  the Insured Person has a Life Threatening Medical 
  Condition and the Insured Person (or his  
  representatives) arranges for the emergency Air  
  Ambulance at their own expense, then the  
Care Classic - CHIHLIP22071V012122

--- PAGE 15 ---

14
  Company will reimburse such costs incurred in  
  accordance with the terms of this Optional  
  Benefit;
 (iv) Payment under this Optional Benefit is subject to 
  a Claim for the same Illness or Injury being  
  admitted by the Company under Benefit 'In- 
  patient Care';
 (v) Additional Documents to be submitted for any 
  Claim under this Optional Benefit:
  a) It is a condition precedent to the Company's 
   liability under this Optional Benefit that the 
   following information and documentation 
   shall be submitted to the Company  
   immediately and in any event within 30  
   days of the event giving rise to the Claim 
   under this Optional Benefit:
  b) Medical reports and transportation details 
   issued by the air ambulance service  
   provider, prescriptions and medical report 
   by the attending Medical Practitioner  
   furnishing the name of the Insured Person 
   and details of treatment rendered along  
   with the statement confirm the necessity of 
   air ambulance services.
  c) Documentary proof for expenses incurred 
   towards availing Air Ambulance services.
3.2.14 Optional Benefit : Maternity and New Born Baby  
 Cover
 The Company shall indemnify, through Cashless or  
 Reimbursement Facility, for the Medical Expenses  
 associated with Hospitalization for the delivery of a  
 child, up to amount specified against this Benefit in the 
 Policy Schedule, subject to the conditions specified  
 below:
 (a) The Company shall be liable to make payment  
  under this Benefit, only if the Insured Member  
  who has delivered the child is the Primary Insured 
  Member or the Primary Insured Person's spouse 
  under floater combination of 2A or 2A1C and over 
  the age of eighteen (18) years of age.
 (b) The delivery shall occur after the completion of 
  the 24 month waiting period under this Benefit.  
  The wait period shall start from the Policy Start 
  Date or on attaining age of 18 years, whichever is 
  later. A fresh 24 month waiting period will apply 
  following a claim under this benefit.
 (c) The Company shall not be liable to make payment 
  under this Benefit in respect of an Insured Person 
  for more than two (2) living children during that 
  Insured Person's lifetime.
 (d) Coverage under this Benefit is not available in  
  case the Insured Person's age is greater than 45  
  years at the time of Policy start date
 (e) Maternity Expenses incurred in connection with 
  the voluntary medical termination of pregnancy 
  during the first 12 weeks from the date of  
  conception shall not be admissible under this  
  Benefit.
  For this purpose 'week' shall constitute any  
  consecutive 7 days.
 (f) Medical Expenses for ectopic pregnancy are not 
  covered under this Benefit. However, these  
  expenses are covered under Benefit 'In-Patient  
  Care'.
 (g) The Company shall be liable to make payment in 
  respect of any Hospitalization arising due to  
  involuntary medical termination of pregnancy, as 
  per MTP Act, 1971(amended) and other  
  applicable laws and rules.
 (c) Clause 4.1 (15) under Permanent Exclusions, is  
  superseded to the extent covered under this  
  Benefit.
 New Born Baby cover
 (a) The Medical Expenses incurred in respect of a  
  New Born Baby whose claim under this Optional 
  Benefit  is admissible by the Company shall be  
  indemnified up to the 'Optional Benefit :  
  Maternity and New Born Baby cover' coverage  
  amount 
 (b) For continuous coverage under this Policy of the 
  child of 91 days and above, an additional premium 
  would be required to be paid.
3.2.15 Optional Benefit : Annual Health Check-up
 If this Optional Benefit is opted, then:
 (i) On the Insured Person's request, through Cashless 
  Facility, the Company will arrange for the Insured 
  Person's Annual Health Check-up for the list of  
  medical tests specified below at its Network to  
  provide the services, in India, subject to the  
  conditions specified below:
  a) This Benefit shall be available only once  
   during a Policy Year per Insured Person;  
   and
  b) This benefit does not reduce the Sum  
   Insured.
 (ii) Medical Tests covered in the Annual Health  
  Check-up, applicable for Insured Persons who are 
  of Age below 18 years on the Policy Period Start 
  Date:-
 
 (iii) Medical Tests covered in the Annual Health  
  Check-up, applicable for Insured Persons who are 
  of Age 18 years or above on the Policy Period  
  Start Date, are as follows :-
Care Classic - CHIHLIP22071V012122
List of Medical Tests covered as a part of Annual Health 
Check-up 
Physical Examination (Height, Weight and Body Mass Index 
(BMI)), Eye Examination, Dental Examination and Scoring, 
Growth Charting, Doctor Consultation, Urine Examination 
(Routine and Microscopic)

--- PAGE 16 ---

15
 Note: Mid-term addition is allowed for this Optional  
 Benefit after payment of full premium for this Optional 
 Benefit.
3.2.16 Optional Cover 5: Reduction in PED Wait Period
 Choosing this Optional Cover reduces the applicable  
 wait period of 48 months for Claims related to Pre- 
 existing diseases, to 24 months.
 Hence all the provisions stated under Clause 4.1 (i) and 
 Definition 2.1.37 holds good for this benefit as well,  
 except that the claims will be admissible for any Medical 
 Expenses incurred for Hospitalization in respect of  
 diagnosis/treatment of any Pre-existing Disease after  
 just 24 months of continuous coverage has elapsed, since 
 the inception of the first Policy with the Company and 
 only for the Sum Insured chosen at that time.
4. Exclusions
4.1. Standard Exclusions:
 Waiting Periods:
 (i) Pre-Existing Diseases: Code- Excl01
  a. Expenses related to the treatment of a pre-
   existing Disease (PED) and its direct  
   complications shall be excluded until the  
   expiry of 48 months of continuous  
   coverage after the date of inception of the 
   first policy with insurer. 
  b. In case of enhancement of sum insured the 
   exclusion shall apply afresh to the extent of 
   sum insured increase.
  c. If the Insured Person is continuously  
   covered without any break as defined under 
   the portability norms of the extant IRDAI 
   (Health Insurance) Regulations, then
   waiting period for the same would be  
   reduced to the extent of prior coverage.
  d. Coverage under the policy after the expiry 
   of 48 months for any pre-existing disease is 
   subject to the same being declared at the  
   time of application and accepted by Insurer. 
 (ii) Specific Waiting  Period: Code- Excl02
  a. Expenses related to the treatment of the  
   listed Conditions, surgeries/treatments
   shall be excluded until the expiry of 24  
   months of continuous coverage, as may be 
   the case after the date of inception of the  
   first policy with the Company. This  
   exclusion shall not be applicable for claims 
   arising due to an accident. 
  b. In case of enhancement of sum insured the 
   exclusion shall apply afresh to the extent of 
   sum insured increase. 
  c. If any of the specified disease/procedure  
   falls under the waiting period specified for 
   pre-Existing diseases, then the longer of the 
   two waiting periods shall apply.
  d. The waiting period for listed conditions  
   shall apply even if contracted after the  
   policy or declared and accepted without a 
   specific exclusion.
  e. If the Insured Person is continuously  
   covered without any break as defined under 
   the applicable norms on portability  
   stipulated by IRDAI, then waiting period 
   for the same would be reduced to the extent 
   of prior coverage.
  f. List of specific diseases/procedures:
   1. Any treatment related to Arthritis (if  
    non-infective), Osteoarthritis and  
   Osteoporosis, Gout, Rheumatism,  
   Spinal Disorders(unless caused by  
   a c c i d e n t ) ,  J o i n t  R e p l a c e m e n t
    Surgery(unless caused by accident),  
    Arthroscopic Knee Surgeries/ACL  
   Reconstruction/Meniscal and Ligament  
   Repair
   2. Surgical treatments for Benign ear, nose 
    and throat (ENT) disorders and  
    surgeries (including but not limited to  
    Adenoidectomy, Mastoidectomy,  
   Tonsillectomy and Tympanoplasty),  
   Nasal Septum Deviation, Sinusitis and  
   related disorders
   3. Benign Prostatic Hypertrophy
   4. Cataract
   5. Dilatation and Curettage
   6. Fissure / Fistula in anus, Hemorrhoids / 
    Piles, Pilonidal Sinus, Gastric and  
    Duodenal Ulcers
   7. Surgery of Genito-urinary system  
   unless necessitated by malignancy
   8. All types of Hernia & Hydrocele 
   9. Hysterectomy for menorrhagia or  
Care Classic - CHIHLIP22071V012122
1 Complete Blood Count(cbc), Urine 
Routine, Esr, Abo Group & Rh Type, 
Blood Sugar Fasting, Cholesterol, Sgpt, 
Creatinine
<5 Lakhs
Complete Blood Count(cbc), Urine 
Routine, Esr, Abo Group & Rh Type, 
Blood Sugar Fasting, Cholesterol, 
Cholesterol Direct Ldl, Cholesterol-hdl, 
Triglycerides, Total Cholesterol/hdl Ratio, 
Creatinine, Blood Urea Nitrogen, Bun / 
Creatinine Ratio, Uric Acid
Set No. List of Medical Tests covered as a 
part of Annual Health Check-up Sum Insured 
5Lakhs-
10Lakhs
1
2
Complete Blood Count(cbc), Urine 
Routine, Esr, Abo Group & Rh Type, 
Blood Sugar Fasting, Cholesterol, 
Cholesterol Direct Ldl, Cholesterol-hdl, 
Triglycerides, Total Cholesterol/hdl Ratio, 
Creatinine, Blood Urea Nitrogen, Bun/ 
Creatinine Ratio, Uric Acid, Treadmill 
Test
3 Above 
10Lakhs

--- PAGE 17 ---

    Fibromyoma or prolapse of uterus  
    unless necessitated by malignancy
   10. Internal tumours, skin tumours,  
    cysts, nodules, polyps including  
    breast lumps (each of any kind)  
     unless malignant
   11. Kidney Stone / Ureteric Stone /  
     Lithotripsy / Gall Bladder Stone
   12. Myomectomy for fibroids
   13. Varicose veins and varicose ulcers
   14. Parkinson's or Alzheimer's disease  
     or Dementia
 (iii) 30-day waiting period- Code- Excl03
  a. Expenses related to the treatment of any  
   illness within 30 days from the first policy 
   commencement date shall be excluded  
   except claims arising due to an accident,  
   provided the same are covered.
  b. This exclusion shall not, however, apply if 
   the Insured Person has Continuous  
   Coverage for more than twelve months.
  c. The referred waiting period is made  
   applicable to the enhanced sum insured in 
   the event of granting higher sum insured  
   subsequently.  
 Notes:
 (i) The Waiting Periods as defined above shall be  
  applicable individually for each Insured Person  
  and Claims shall be assessed accordingly. 
 (ii) If Coverage for Optional Benefits (if applicable) 
  are added afresh at the time of renewal of this  
  Policy, the Waiting Periods as defined above shall 
  be applicable afresh to the newly added Optional 
  Benefits (if applicable), from the time of such  
  renewal.
 Permanent Exclusions:
 Any Claim in respect of any Insured Person for, arising 
 out of or directly or indirectly due to any of the following 
 shall not be admissible unless expressly stated to the  
 contrary elsewhere in the Policy Terms and conditions. 
 1. Investigation & Evaluation: (Code- Excl04)
  a) Expenses related to any admission  
   primarily for diagnostics and evaluation  
   purposes only are excluded.
  b) Any diagnostic expenses which are not  
   related or not incidental to the current  
   diagnosis and treatment are excluded.
 2. Rest Cure, rehabilitation and respite care:  
  (Code- Excl05)
  a) Expenses related to any admission  
   primarily for enforced bed rest and not for 
   receiving treatment. This also includes:
   i. Custodial care either at home or in a  
    nursing facility for personal care such as 
    help with activities of daily living such 
    as bathing, dressing, moving around  
    either by skilled nurses or assistant or  
    non-skilled persons. 
   ii. Any services for people who are  
    terminally ill to address physical, social, 
    emotional and spiritual needs.
 3. Obesity/ Weight Control: (Code- Excl06)
  Expenses related to the surgical treatment of  
  obesity that does not fulfill all the below  
  conditions:
  1) Surgery to be conducted is upon the advice 
   of the Doctor
  2) The surgery/Procedure conducted should  
   be supported by clinical protocols
  3) The member has to be 18 years of age or  
   older and
  4) Body Mass Index (BMI);
   a) greater than or equal to 40 or
   b) greater than or equal to 35 in  
    conjunction with any of the following  
    severe co- morbidities following failure 
    of less invasive methods of weight loss:
    i. Obesity-related cardiomyopathy
    ii. Coronary heart disease 
    iii. Severe Sleep Apnea
    iv. Uncontrolled Type2 Diabetes
 4. Change-of-Gender treatments: (Code- Excl07)
  Expenses related to any treatment, including  
  surgical management, to change characteristics of 
  the body to those of the opposite sex.
 5. Cosmetic or plastic Surgery: (Code- Excl08)
  Expenses for cosmetic or plastic surgery or any  
  treatment to change appearance unless for
  reconstruction following an Accident, Burn(s) or 
  Canceror as part of medically necessary treatment 
  to remove a direct and immediate health risk to the 
  insured. For this to be considered a medical  
  necessity, it must be certified by the attending  
  Medical Practitioner.
 6. Hazardous or Adventure sports: (Code-  
  Excl09)
  Expenses related to any treatment necessitated  
  due to participation as a professional in hazardous 
  or adventure sports, including but not limited to, 
  para-jumping, rock climbing, mountaineering,  
  rafting, motor racing, horse  racing or scuba  
  diving, hand gliding, sky diving, deep-sea diving. 
 7. Breach of law: (Code- Excl10)
  Expenses for treatment directly arising from or  
  consequent upon any Insured Person committing 
  or attempting to commit a breach of law with  
  criminal intent.
 8. Excluded Providers: (Code- Excl11)
16
Care Classic - CHIHLIP22071V012122

--- PAGE 18 ---

17
  Expenses incurred towards treatment in any  
  hospital or by any Medical Practitioner or any  
  other provider specifically excluded by the  
  Insurer and disclosed in its website / notified to the 
  policyholders are not admissible. However, in  
  case of life threatening situations or following an 
  accident, expenses up to the stage of stabilization 
  are payable but not the complete claim. 
  Note: Refer Annexure – II of the Policy Terms & 
  Conditions for list of excluded hospitals.
 9. Treatment for Alcoholism, drug or substance  
  abuse or any addictive condition and  
  consequences thereof. (Code- Excl12)
 10. Treatments received in heath hydros, nature cure 
  clinics, spas or similar establishments or private 
  beds registered as a nursing home attached to such 
  establishments or where admission is arranged  
  wholly or partly for domestic reasons. (Code-  
  Excl13)
 11. Dietary supplements and substances that
  can be purchased without prescription, including 
  but not limited to Vitamins, minerals and organic 
  substances unless prescribed by a medical  
  practitioner as part of hospitalization claim or day 
  care procedure (Code- Excl14)
 12. Refractive Error: (Code- Excl15)
  Expenses related to the treatment for correction of 
  eye sight due to refractive error less than 7.5  
  dioptres.
 13. Unproven Treatments: (Code- Excl16)
  Expenses related to any unproven treatment,  
  services and supplies for or in connection with  
  any treatment. Unproven treatments are  
  treatments, procedures or supplies that lack  
  significant medical documentation to support  
  their effectiveness. 
 14. Sterility and Infertility: (Code- Excl17)
  Expenses related to sterility and infertility. This  
  includes:
  (i) Any type of contraception, sterilization
  (ii) Assisted Reproduction services including 
   artificial insemination and advanced
   reproductive technologies such as IVF,  
   ZIFT, GIFT, ICSI
  (iii) Gestational Surrogacy
  (iv) Reversal of sterilization
 15. Maternity: (Code Excl18)
  a. Medical treatment expenses traceable to  
   childbirth (including complicated
   deliveries and caesarean sections incurred 
   during hospitalization) except ectopic
   pregnancy;
  b. Expenses towards miscarriage (unless due 
   to an accident) and lawful medical  
   termination of pregnancy during the policy 
   period. 
4.2. Specific Exclusions:
 Waiting Periods:
 (i) Assisted Reproductive Treatment : 
  a. Claims will not be admissible for any  
   expenses incurred related to any Assisted 
   Reproductive Treatment Expenses until 36 
   months of continuous coverage has  
   elapsed, under this Benefit. 
  b. In case of enhancement of sum insured the 
   exclusion shall apply afresh to the extent of 
   sum insured increase.
 (ii) Maternity & New Born Cover (Optional  
  Benefit) : 
  a. Claims will not be admissible for any  
   expenses incurred for diagnosis / treatment 
   related to any Maternity & New Born  
   Expenses until 24 months of continuous  
   coverage has elapsed, under this Benefit. 
  b. In case of enhancement of sum insured the 
   exclusion shall apply afresh to the extent of 
   sum insured increase.
  Note: The Waiting Periods as defined above shall 
  be applicable individually for each Insured Person 
  and Claims shall be assessed accordingly. 
 Permanent Exclusions:
 Any Claim in respect of any Insured Person for, arising 
 out of or directly or indirectly due to any of the following 
 shall not be admissible unless expressly stated to the  
 contrary elsewhere in the Policy Terms and conditions.
 1. Any item or condition or treatment specified in  
  List of Non-Medical Items (Annexure – I to  
  Policy Terms & Conditions).
 2. Taking part or is supposed to participate in a naval, 
  military, air force operation or aviation in a  
  professional or semi-professional nature. 
 3. Treatment taken from anyone who is not a  
  Medical Practitioner or from a Medical  
  Practitioner who is practicing outside the  
  discipline for which he is licensed or any kind of 
  self-medication.
 4. Charges incurred in connection with routine eye 
  examinations and ear examinations, dentures,  
  artificial teeth and all other similar external  
  appliances and / or devices whether for diagnosis 
  or treatment
 5. Any expenses incurred on external prosthesis,  
  corrective devices, external durable medical  
  equipment of any kind, like wheelchairs, walkers, 
  glucometer, crutches, ambulatory devices,
  instruments used in treatment of sleep apnea  
  syndrome and oxygen concentrator for asthmatic 
  condition, cost  of cochlear implants and related 
  surgery.
 6. Alopecia wigs and/or toupee and all hair or hair 
  fall treatment and products.
 7. Screening, counseling or treatment of any  
Care Classic - CHIHLIP22071V012122

--- PAGE 19 ---

  external Congenital Anomaly, Illness or defects or 
  anomalies or treatment relating to external birth 
  defects.
 8. Treatment of mental retardation, arrested or  
  incomplete development of mind of a person,  
  subnormal intelligence or mental intellectual  
  disability.
 9. Circumcision unless necessary for treatment of an 
  Illness or as may be necessitated due to an  
  Accident.
 10. All preventive care (except eligible and entitled 
  for Benefit: 'Annual Health Check-up'),  
  Vaccination including Inoculation and  
  Immunizations (except in case of post-bite  
  treatment) and tonics.
 11. Expenses incurred for Artificial life maintenance, 
  including life support machine use, post  
  confirmation of vegetative state or brain dead by 
  treating medical practitioner where such  
  treatment will not result in recovery or restoration 
  of the previous state of health under any  
  circumstances.
 12. Non-Allopathic Treatment, Hydrotherapy,
  Acupuncture, Reflexology, Chiropractic
  treatment or treatment related to any  
  unrecognized systems of medicine.
 13. War (whether declared or not) and war like  
  occurrence or invasion, acts of foreign enemies, 
  hostilities, civil war, rebellion, revolutions,  
  insurrections, mutiny, military or usurped power, 
  seizure, capture, arrest, restraints and detainment 
  of all kinds.
 14. Act of self-destruction or self-inflicted Injury,  
  attempted suicide or suicide while sane or insane 
  or Illness or Injury attributable to consumption,  
  use, misuse or abuse of tobacco, intoxicating  
  drugs, alcohol or hallucinogens.
 15. Any charges incurred to procure documents  
  related to treatment or Illness pertaining to any  
  period of Hospitalization or Illness.
 16. Personal comfort and convenience items or  
  services including but not limited to T.V.  
  (wherever specifically charged separately),
  charges for access to cosmetics, hygiene articles, 
  body care products and bath additives, as well as 
  similar incidental services and supplies.
 17. Expenses related to any kind of RMO charges,  
  Service charge, Surcharge, night charges levied  
  by the hospital under whatever head or  
  transportation charges by visiting consultant.
 18. Nuclear, chemical or biological attack or  
  weapons, contributed to, caused by, resulting  
  from or from any other cause or event  
  contributing concurrently or in any other  
  sequence to the loss, claim or expense. For the  
  purpose of this exclusion:
  a. Nuclear attack or weapons means the use of 
   any nuclear weapon or device or waste or 
   combustion of nuclear fuel or the emission, 
   discharge, dispersal, release or escape of  
   fissile/ fusion material emitting a level of 
   radioactivity capable of causing any  
   Illness, incapacitating disablement or  
   death.
  b. Chemical attack or weapons means the  
   emission, discharge, dispersal, release or  
   escape of any solid, liquid or gaseous  
   chemical compound which, when suitably 
   distributed, is capable of causing any  
   Illness, incapacitating disablement or
   death.
  c. Biological attack or weapons means the  
   emission, discharge, dispersal, release or  
   escape of any pathogenic (disease  
   producing) micro-organisms and/or
   biologically produced toxins (including  
   genetically modified organisms and
   chemically synthesized toxins) which are 
   capable of causing any Illness,  
   incapacitating disablement or death.
 19. Impairment of an Insured Person's intellectual  
  faculties by abuse of stimulants or depressants  
  unless prescribed by a medical practitioner.
 20. Any treatment taken in a clinic, rest home,  
  convalescent home for the addicted,
  detoxification center, sanatorium, home for the  
  aged, remodeling clinic or similar institutions.
 21. Remicade, Avastin or similar injectable treatment 
  which is undergone other than as a part of In- 
  Patient Care Hospitalisation or Day Care  
  Hospitalisation is excluded.
 22. Expenses related to any kind of Advance  
  Technology Methods other than mentioned in the 
  Clause 3.1.1(ix).
 23. Any condition caused by or associated with any 
  sexually transmitted disease except arising out of 
  HIV.
 24. Hormone replacement therapy.
 25. Any other exclusion as specified in the Policy  
  Schedule.
 Note: In addition to the foregoing, any loss, claim or  
 expense of whatsoever nature directly or indirectly  
 arising out of, contributed to, caused by, resulting from, 
 or in connection with any action taken in controlling,  
 preventing, suppressing, minimizing or in any way  
 relating to the above Permanent Exclusions shall also be 
 excluded.
5. General Terms and Clauses 
5.1. Standard General Terms & Clauses
5.1.1. Disclosure of Information
 The Policy shall be void and all premium paid thereon 
 shall be forfeited to the Company in the event of  
 misrepresentation, mis-description or non-disclosure of 
 any material fact by the policyholder.
Care Classic - CHIHLIP22071V012122
18

--- PAGE 20 ---

 Note: 
 a. “Material facts” for the purpose of this clause  
  policy shall mean all relevant information sought 
  by the Company in the proposal form and other  
  connected documents to enable it to take informed 
  decision in the context of underwriting the risk.
 b. In continuation to the above clause the Company 
  may also adjust the scope of cover and / or the  
  premium paid or payable, accordingly.
5.1.2. Condition  Precedent  to Admission  of Liability
 The terms and conditions of the policy must be fulfilled 
 by the insured person for the Company to make any  
 payment for claim(s) arising under the policy.
5.1.3. Claim Settlement (provision  for Penal Interest)
 i. The Company shall settle or reject  a claim,  as   
  the case  may  be,  within  30  days  from  the  date  
  of receipt of  last  necessary document.
 ii. In the  case of delay  in  the  payment  of a claim,  
  the Company  shall  be  liable  to  pay  interest   
  from  the  date of receipt of last necessary   
  document  to  the  date  of  payment  of  claim  at  
  a  rate  2%  above  the bank rate .
 iii. However, where the circumstances of a claim  
  warrant an investigation in  the  opinion of  the  
  Company, it shall initiate and complete such  
  investigation at the earliest in any case not later  
  than 30  days from the date of  receipt  of  last   
  necessary document. In such cases, the Company 
  shall settle the claim within 45 days from the date 
  of receipt of last necessary document.
 iv. In case of delay beyond stipulated 45 days the  
  company shall be liable to pay interest at a rate 2% 
  above the bank rate from the date of receipt of last 
  necessary document to the date of payment of  
  claim.
 Bank rate shall mean the rate fixed by the Reserve Bank 
 of lndia (RBl) at the beginning of the financial year in  
 which claim has fallen due.
5.1.4. Complete Discharge
 Any payment to the policyholder, Insured Person or his/ 
 her nominees or his/ her legal representative or Assignee 
 or to the Hospital, as the case may be, for any benefit  
 under the Policy shall be valid discharge towards  
 payment of claim by the Company to the extent of that 
 amount for the particular claim.
5.1.5. Multiple Policies
 a. In case of multiple policies taken by an insured  
  during a period from the same or one or more  
  insurers to indemnify treatment costs, the insured 
  person shall have the right to require a settlement 
  of his/her claim in terms of any of his/her policies. 
  In all such cases the insurer chosen by the insured 
  person shall be obliged to settle the claim as long 
  as the claim is within the limits of and according to 
  the terms of the chosen policy.
 b. Insured person having multiple policies shall also 
  have the right to prefer claims under  this  policy  
  for the amounts disallowed under any other  
  policy/ policies, even if the sum insured is not  
  exhausted. Then the Insurer shall independently 
  settle the claim subject to the terms and conditions 
  of this policy.
 c. If the amount to be claimed exceeds the sum  
  insured under a single policy, the insured person 
  shall have the right to choose insurers from whom 
  he/she wants to claim the balance amount.
 d. Where an insured has policies from more than one 
  insurer to cover the same risk on indemnity basis, 
  the insured shall only be indemnified the  
  treatment costs in accordance with the terms and 
  conditions of the chosen policy.
5.1.6. Fraud
 If any claim made by the insured person, is in any respect 
 fraudulent, or if any false statement, or declaration is  
 made or used in support thereof, or if any fraudulent  
 means or devices are used by the insured person or  
 anyone acting on his/her behalf to obtain any benefit  
 under this policy, all benefits under this policy shall be 
 forfeited.
 Any amount already paid against claims made under this 
 policy but which are found fraudulent later shall be  
 repaid by all recipient(s) / policyholder(s) who has made 
 that particular claim, who shall be jointly and severally 
 liable for such repayment to the insurer.
 For the purpose of this clause, the expression "fraud"  
 means any of the following acts  committed by the  
 Insured Person or by his agent or the hospital/doctor/any 
 other party acting on behalf of the insured person, with 
 intent to deceive the insurer or to induce the insurer to 
 issue an insurance Policy:-
 (a) The suggestion, as a fact of that which is not true 
  and which the Insured Person does not  believe to 
  be  true;
 (b) The active concealment of a fact by the Insured  
  Person having knowledge or belief of the fact;
 (c) Any other act fitted to deceive; and
 (d) Any such act or omission  as the  law specially   
  declares  to  be fraudulent
 The Company shall not repudiate the claim and / or  
 forfeit the policy benefits on the ground of Fraud, if the 
 insured person / beneficiary can prove that the  
 misstatement was true to the best of his knowledge and 
 there was no deliberate intention to suppress the fact or 
 that such misstatement of or suppression of material fact 
 are within the knowledge of the insurer.
5.1.7. Cancellation / Termination
 (a) The policyholder may cancel this policy by giving 
  15 days 'written notice and in such an event, the 
  Company shall refund premium for the unexpired 
  policy period as detailed below.
  Refund % to be applied on premium received
Care Classic - CHIHLIP22071V012122
19

--- PAGE 21 ---

 (b) Notwithstanding anything contained herein or  
  otherwise, no refunds of premium shall be made 
  in respect of Cancellation where, any claim has  
  been admitted or has been lodged or any benefit 
  has been availed by the Insured person under the 
  Policy
 (c) The Company may cancel the Policy at any time 
  on grounds of mis-representations, non- 
  disclosure of material facts, fraud by the Insured 
  Person, by giving 15 days' written notice. There 
  would be no refund of premium on cancellation 
  on grounds of mis-representations, non- 
  disclosure of material facts or fraud.
 Notes: 
 In case of demise of the Policyholder, 
 (i) Where the Policy covers only the Policyholder,  
  this Policy shall stand null and void from the date 
  and time of demise of the Policyholder. The  
  premium would be refunded for the unexpired  
  period of this Policy at the short period scales  
  subject to no claim has been admitted or has been 
  lodged or any benefit has been availed by the  
  Insured person under the Policy.
 (ii) Where the Policy covers other Insured Persons,  
  this Policy shall continue till the end of Policy  
  Period for the other Insured Persons. If the other 
  Insured Persons wish to continue with the same 
  Policy, the Company will renew the Policy subject 
  to the appointment of a policyholder provided  
  that:
  I. Written notice in this regard is given to the 
   Company before the Policy Period End  
   Date; and 
  II. A person of Age 18 years or above, who  
   satisfies the Company's criteria applies to 
   become the Policyholder.
 In case Premium Installment mode is opted for, then:
 (i) If Policyholder cancels the Policy after the Free 
  look period or demise of Policyholder where  
  he/she is the only insured in the Policy, then the 
  Company will refund 50% of the installment  
  premium for the unexpired installment period,  
  provided no Claim has been made under the  
  Policy
5.1.8. Migration
 The insured person will have the option to migrate the 
 policy to other health insurance products/plans offered 
 by the company by applying for migration of the policy 
 at least 30 days before the policy renewal date as per  
 IRDAI guidelines on Migration. If such person is  
 presently covered and has been continuously covered  
 without any lapses under any health insurance  
 product/plan offered by the company, the insured person 
 will get the accrued continuity benefits in waiting  
 periods as per IRDAI guidelines on migration
 For Detailed Guidelines on Migration, kindly refer the 
 link:
 https://www.careinsurance.com/other-disclosures.html
5.1.9. Portability
 The insured person will have the option to port the policy 
 to other insurers by applying to such insurer to port the 
 entire policy along with all the members of the family, if 
 any, at least 45 days before, but not earlier than 60 days 
 from the policy renewal date as per IRDAI guidelines  
 related to portability. lf such person is presently covered 
 and has been continuously covered without any lapses 
 under any health insurance policy with an Indian  
 General/Health insurer, the proposed insured person will 
 get the accrued continuity benefits in waiting periods as 
 per IRDAI guidelines on portability.
 For Detailed Guidelines on Portability, kindly refer the 
 link:
 https://www.careinsurance.com/other-disclosures.html
5.1.10. Renewal of Policy
 The policy shall ordinarily be renewable except on  
 grounds of fraud, misrepresentation by the insured  
 person.
 i. The Company shall endeavor to give notice for  
  renewal. However, the Company is not under  
  obligation to give any notice for renewal.
 ii. Renewal shall not be denied on the ground that the 
  insured person had made a claim or claims in the 
  preceding policy years.
 iii. Request for renewal along with requisite premium 
  shall be received by the Company before the end 
  of the policy period.
 iv. At the end of the policy period, the policy shall  
  terminate and can be renewed within the Grace  
  Period of 30 days to maintain continuity of  
  benefits without break in policy. Coverage is not 
  available during the grace period
 v. No loading shall apply on renewals based on  
  individual claims experience
Care Classic - CHIHLIP22071V012122
20
87.50% 91.70%
1 month to 
3 months
50.00% 75.00% 83.30%
Cancellation 
date from 
Policy Period 
Start Date
Policy 
Tenure 1 
Year
Policy 
Tenure 2 
Year
Policy 
Tenure 3 
Year
75.00%Up to 1 month
3 months to 
6 months
25.00% 62.50% 75.00%
6 months to 
12 months
0.00% 50.00% 66.70%
12 months to 
15 months
N.A 25.00% 50.00%
15 months to 
18 months
N.A 12.50% 41.70%
18 months to 
24 months
N.A 0.00% 33.30%
24 months to 
30 months
N.A N.A 8.30%
Beyond 30 
months
N.A N.A 0.0%

--- PAGE 22 ---

5.1.11. Withdrawal of Policy
 i. In the likelihood of this product being withdrawn 
  in future, the Company will intimate the insured 
  person about the same 90 days prior to expiry of 
  the policy.
 ii. Insured Person will have the option to migrate to 
  similar health insurance product available with  
  the Company at the time of renewal with all the 
  accrued continuity benefits such as cumulative  
  bonus, waiver of waiting period, as per IRDAI  
  guidelines, provided the policy has been  
  maintained without a break.
5.1.12. Moratorium Period
 After completion of eight continuous years under the  
 policy no look back to be applied. This period of eight 
 years is called as moratorium period. The moratorium  
 would be applicable for the sums insured of the first  
 policy and subsequently completion of 8 continuous  
 years would be applicable from date of enhancement of 
 sums insured only on the enhanced limits. After the  
 expiry of Moratorium Period no health insurance claim 
 shall be contestable except for proven fraud and  
 permanent exclusions specified in the policy contract.  
 The policies would however be subject to all limits, sub 
 limits, co-payments, deductibles as per the policy  
 contract.
5.1.13. Premium payment Installment
 lf the insured person has opted for Payment of Premium 
 on an installment basis i.e. Half Yearly or Quarterly or 
 Monthly, as mentioned in the policy Schedule  
 /Certificate of Insurance, the following Conditions shall 
 apply (notwithstanding any terms contrary elsewhere in 
 the policy)
 1. Grace Period of 15 days would be given to pay the 
  installment premium due for the policy 
 2. During such grace period, coverage will not be  
  available from the due date of installment  
  premium till the date of receipt of premium by  
  Company
 3. The insured person will get the accrued continuity 
  benefit in respect of the "Waiting Periods",  
  "Specific Waiting Periods" in the event of  
  payment of premium within the stipulated grace 
  Period
 4. No interest will be charged lf the installment  
  premium is not paid on due date.
 5. In case of installment premium due not received 
  within the grace period, the policy will get  
  cancelled
 6. In the event of a claim, all subsequent premium 
  installments shall immediately become due and  
  payable.(This clause will not apply to claims  
  arising under 'Second Opinion', 'Other Value  
  added Services', 'International Second Opinion'  
  and 'Annual Health Check-up' benefits)
 7. The company has the right to recover and deduct 
  all the pending installments from the claim  
  amount due under the policy.
 Note:
 Tenure Discount will not be applicable if the Insured  
 Person has opted for Premium Payment in Installments.
5.1.14. Possibility of  Revision  of Terms of the Policy   
 Including the Premium Rates
 The Company, with prior approval of IRDA, may revise 
 or modify the terms of the policy including the premium 
 rates. The insured person shall be notified three months 
 before the changes are affected.
5.1.15. Free Look Period
 The Free Look Period shall be applicable on new  
 individual health insurance policies and not on renewals 
 or at the time of porting/migrating the policy.
 The insured person shall be allowed free look period of 
 fifteen days (Thirty days in case of distance marketing) 
 from date of receipt of the policy document to review the 
 terms and conditions of the policy, and to return the same 
 if not acceptable.
 If the insured has not made any claim during the Free  
 Look Period, the insured shall be entitled to 
 i. A refund of the premium paid less any expenses 
  incurred by the Company on medical examination 
  of the insured person and the stamp duty charges 
  or
 ii. Where the risk has already commenced and the  
  option of return of the policy is exercised by the 
  insured person, a deduction towards the  
  proportionate risk premium for period of cover or
 iii. Where only a part of the insurance coverage has 
  commenced, such proportionate premium
  commensurate with the insurance coverage  
  during such period;
5.1.16. Grievances
 In case of any grievance the insured person may contact 
 the company through
  Website: www.careinsurance.com 
 Courier: Any of Company's Branch Office or corporate 
 office
 Insured person may also approach the grievance cell at 
 any of the company's branches with the details of  
 grievance.
 If Insured person is not satisfied with the redressal of  
 grievance through one of the above methods, insured  
 person may contact the grievance officer at  
 Care Health Insurance Limited,
 Unit No. 604 - 607, 6th Floor, Tower C, Unitech Cyber 
 Park, Sector-39, Gurgaon, Haryana – 122001
 For updated details of grievance officer, kindly refer the 
 link https://www.careinsurance.com/customer- 
 grievance-redressal.html 
 If Insured person is not satisfied with the redressal of  
 grievance through above methods, the insured person  
 may also approach the office of Insurance Ombudsman 
Care Plus - CHIHLIP22047V012122
21

--- PAGE 23 ---

 of the respective area/region for redressal of grievance as 
 per Insurance Ombudsman Rules 2017. 
 Grievance may also be lodged at IRDAI integrated  
 Grievance Management System - https:/ligms.  
 irda.gov.in/
 Note: The Contact details of the Insurance Ombudsman 
 offices have been provided as Annexure V.
5.1.17. Nomination:
 The policyholder is required at the inception of the  
 policy to make a nomination for the purpose of payment 
 of claims under the policy in the event of death of the  
 policyholder. Any change of nomination shall be  
 communicated to the company in writing and such  
 change shall be effective only when an endorsement on 
 the policy is made. In the event of death of the  
 policyholder, the Company will pay the nominee {as  
 named in the Policy Schedule/Policy Certificate/  
 Endorsement (if any)} and in case there is no subsisting 
 nominee, to the legal heirs or legal representatives of the 
 policyholder whose discharge shall be treated as full and 
 final discharge of its liability under the policy.
5.2. Specific General Terms & Clauses
5.2.1. Material Change
 It is a condition precedent to the Company's liability  
 under the Policy that the Policyholder shall immediately 
 notify the Company in writing of any material change in 
 the risk on account of change in nature of occupation or 
 business at his own expense The Company may adjust 
 the scope of cover and / or the premium paid or payable, 
 accordingly.
5.2.2. Records to be maintained
 The Policyholder or Insured Person shall keep an  
 accurate record containing all relevant medical records 
 and shall allow the Company or its representatives to  
 inspect such records. The Policyholder or Insured Person 
 shall furnish such information as the Company may  
 require under this Policy at any time during the Policy 
 Period or Policy Year or until final adjustment (if any) 
 and resolution of all Claims under this Policy.
5.2.3. No constructive Notice
 Any knowledge or information of any circumstance or 
 condition in relation to the Policyholder or Insured  
 Person which is in possession of the Company other than 
 that information expressly disclosed in the Proposal  
 Form or otherwise in writing to the Company, shall not 
 be held to be binding or prejudicially affect the  
 Company. 
5.2.4. Policy Disputes
 Any and all disputes or differences under or in relation to 
 the validity, construction, interpretation and effect to this 
 Policy shall be determined by the Indian Courts and in 
 accordance with Indian law.
 5.2.5. Limitation of liability
 Any Claim under this Policy for which the notification or 
 intimation of Claim is received 12 calendar months after 
 the event or occurrence giving rise to the Claim shall not 
 be admissible, unless the Policyholder proves to the  
 Company's satisfaction that the delay in reporting of the 
 Claim was for reasons beyond his control. 
5.2.6. Communication
 a. Any communication meant for the Company must 
  be in writing and be delivered to its address shown 
  in the Policy Schedule. Any communication  
  meant for the Policyholder/ Insured Person will be 
  sent by the Company to his last known address or 
  the address as shown in the Policy Schedule.
 b. All notifications and declarations for the  
  Company must be in writing and sent to the  
  address specified in the Policy Schedule.Agents 
  are not authorized to receive notices and  
  declarations on the Company's behalf.
 c. Notice and instructions will be deemed served 10 
  days after posting or immediately upon receipt in 
  the case of hand delivery, facsimile or e-mail.
5.2.7. Alterations in the Policy
 This Policy constitutes the complete contract of  
 insurance. No change or alteration shall be valid or  
 effective unless approved in writing by the Company,  
 which approval shall be evidenced by a written  
 endorsement signed and stamped by the Company.  
 However, change or alteration with respect to increase/ 
 decrease of the Sum Insured shall be permissible only at 
 the time of renewal of the Policy.
5.2.8. Out of all the details of the various Benefits provided in 
 the Policy Terms and Conditions,  only the details  
 pertaining to Benefits chosen by policyholder as per  
 Policy Schedule shall  be considered relevant
5.2.9. Electronic Transactions 
 The Policyholder and /or Insured Person agrees to  
 adhere to and comply with all such terms and conditions 
 as the Company may prescribe from time to time, and  
 hereby agrees and confirms that all transactions effected 
 by or through facilities for conducting remote  
 transactions including the Internet, World Wide Web,  
 electronic data interchange, call centers, tele-service  
 operations (whether voice, video, data or combination  
 thereof) or by means of electronic, computer, automated 
 machines network or through other means of  
 telecommunication, established by or on behalf of the  
 Company, for and in respect of the Policy or its terms  
 shall constitute legally binding and valid transactions  
 when done in adherence to and in compliance with the 
 Company's terms and conditions for such facilities, as  
 may be prescribed from time to time. Any terms and  
 conditions related to electronic transactions shall be  
 within the approved Policy Terms and Conditions
6. Other Terms and Clauses 
6.1. Claims procedure and management
 This section explains about procedures involved to file a 
 valid Claim by the Insured Person and related processes 
 involved to manage the Claim by the Company.  
6.1.1. Pre-requisite for admissibility of a Claim:
 Any claim being made by an Insured Person or attendant 
Care Classic - CHIHLIP22071V012122
22

--- PAGE 24 ---

Care Classic - CHIHLIP22071V012122
23
 of Insured Person during Hospitalization on behalf of the 
 Insured person, should comply with the following  
 conditions:
 (i) The Condition Precedent Clause has to be  
  fulfilled.
 (ii) The health damage caused, Medical Expenses  
  incurred, subsequently the Claim being made,  
  should be with respect to the Insured Person only. 
  The Company will not be liable to indemnify the 
  Insured Person for any loss other than the covered 
  Benefits and any other person who is not accepted 
  by the Company as an Insured Person.
 (iii) The holding Insurance Policy should be in force at 
  the event of the Claim. All the Policy Terms and 
  Conditions, wait periods and exclusions are to be 
  fulfilled including the realization of Premium by 
  their respective due dates.
 (iv) All the required and supportive Claim related  
  documents are to be furnished within the  
  stipulated timelines. The Company may call for 
  additional documents wherever required.
6.1.2. Claim settlement - Facilities
 (a) Cashless Facility
  The Company extends Cashless Facility as a  
  mode to indemnify the medical expenses incurred 
  by the Insured Person at a Network Provider. For 
  this purpose, the Insured Person will be issued a 
  “Health card” at the time of Policy purchase,  
  which has to be preserved and produced at any of 
  the Network Providers in the event of Claim being 
  made, to avail Cashless Facility. The following is 
  the process for availing Cashless Facility:- 
  (i) Submission of Pre-authorization Form: 
   A Pre-authorization form which is  
   available on the Company's Website or  
   with the Network Provider, has to be duly 
   filled and signed by the Insured Person and 
   the treating Medical Practitioner, as  
   applicable, which has to be submitted  
   electronically by the Network Provider to 
   the Company for approval. Only upon due 
   approval from the Company, Cashless  
   Facility can be availed at any Network  
   Hospital.
  (ii) Identification Documents: The “Health  
   card” provided by the Company under this 
   Policy, along with one Valid Photo  
   Identification Proof of the Insured Person 
   are to be produced at the Network Provider, 
   photocopies of which shall be forwarded to 
   the Company for authentication purposes. 
   Valid Photo Identification Proof
   documents which will be accepted by the 
   Company are Voter ID card, Driving  
   License, Passport, PAN Card, Aadhar Card 
   or any other identification proof as stated 
   by the Company. 
  (iii) Company's Approval: The Company will 
   confirm in writing, authorization or  
   rejection of the request to avail Cashless  
   Facility for the Insured Person's  
   Hospitalization. 
  (iv) Company's Authorization:
   a) If the request for availing Cashless  
    Facility is authorized by the Company, 
    then payment for the Medical Expenses 
    incurred in respect of the Insured Person 
    shall not have to be made to the extent 
    that such Medical Expenses are covered 
    under this Policy and fall within the  
    amount authorized in writing by the  
    Company for availing Cashless Facility.
   b) An Authorization letter will include  
    details of Sanctioned Amount, any  
    specific limitation on the Claim, and any 
    other details specific to the Insured  
    Person, if any, as applicable. 
   c) In the event that the cost of  
    Hospitalization exceeds the authorized 
    limit, the Network Provider shall  
    request the Company for an  
    enhancement of Authorization Limit  
    stating details of specific circumstances 
    which have led to the need for increase 
    in the previously authorized limit.  The 
    Company will verify the eligibility and 
    evaluate the request for enhancement on 
    the availability of further limits.
  (v) Event of Discharge from Hospital: All  
   original bills and evidence of treatment for 
   the Medical Expenses incurred in respect 
   of the Hospitalization of the Insured Person 
   a n d  a l l  o t h e r  i n f o r m a t i o n  a n d
   documentation specified under Clauses  
   6.1.4 and 6.1.5 shall be submitted by the  
   Network Provider immediately and in any 
   event before the Insured Person's discharge 
   from Hospital.
  (vi) Company's Rejection: If the Company  
   does not authorize the Cashless Facility  
   due to insufficient Sum Insured or  
   insufficient information provided to the  
   Company to determine the admissibility of 
   the Claim, then payment for such treatment 
   will have to be made by the Policyholder / 
   Insured Person to the Network Provider,  
   f o l l o w i n g  w h i c h  a  C l a i m  f o r
   reimbursement may be made to the  
   Company which shall be considered  
   subject to the Insured Person's Policy limits 
   and relevant conditions. Please note that  
   rejection of a Pre-authorization request is 
   in no way construed as rejection of  
   coverage or treatment. The Insured Person 
   can proceed with the treatment, settle the  
   hospital bills and submit the claim for a  
   possible reimbursement.
  (vii) Network Provider related: The Company 
   may modify the list of Network Providers 
   or modify or restrict the extent of Cashless 
   Facilities that may be availed at any  

--- PAGE 25 ---

   particular Network Provider.  For an  
   updated list of Network Providers and the 
   extent of Cashless Facilities available at  
   each Network Provider, the Insured Person 
   may refer to the list of Network Providers 
   available on the Company's website or at  
   the call center. 
  (viii) Claim Settlement: For Claim settlement 
   under Cashless Facility, the payment shall 
   be made to the Network Provider whose  
   discharge would be complete and final. 
 (b) Re-imbursement Facility
  (i)  It is agreed and understood that in all  
    cases where intimation of a Claim has 
    been provided under Reimbursement  
    Facility and/or the Company
    specifically states that a particular  
    Benefit is payable only under  
    Reimbursement Facility, all the  
   i n f o r m a t i o n  a n d  d o c u m e n t a t i o n   
   specified in Clause 6.1.4 and Clause  
   6.1.3 shall be submitted to the Company  
   at Policyholder's /Insured Person's own  
   expense, immediately and in any event  
   within 30 days of  Insured Person's  
    discharge from Hospital.
  (ii)  T h e  C o m p a n y  s h a l l  g i v e  a n   
    acknowledgment of collected
    documents. However, in case of any  
    delayed submission, the Company may 
    examine and relax the time limits  
    mentioned upon the merits of the case. 
  (iii)   In case a reimbursement claim is  
    received after a Pre-Authorization letter 
    has been issued for the same case  
    earlier, before processing such claim, a 
    check will be made with the Network  
    Provider whether the Pre-authorization 
    has been utilized. Once such check and 
    declaration is received from the  
    Network Provider, the case will be  
    processed. 
  (iv) F o r  C l a i m  s e t t l e m e n t  u n d e r
   reimbursement, the Company will pay the 
   Policyholder. In the event of death of the  
   Policyholder, the Company will pay the  
   nominee (as named in the Policy Schedule) 
   and in case of no nominee, to the legal heirs 
   or legal representatives of the Policyholder 
   whose discharge shall be treated as full and 
   final discharge of its liability under the  
   Policy.
  (v) Date of Loss' under Reimbursement  
   Facility is the 'Date of Admission' to  
   Hospital in case of Hospitalization & actual 
   Date of Loss for non-Hospitalization  
   related Benefits.
6.1.3. Duties of a Claimant/ Insured Person in the event of 
 Claim
 It is agreed and understood that as a Condition Precedent 
 for a Claim to be considered under this Policy:
  (i) The Policyholder / Insured Person shall check the 
  updated list of Network Provider before  
  submission of a pre-authorization request for  
  Cashless Facility.
 (ii) All reasonable steps and measures must be taken 
  to avoid or minimize the quantum of any Claim 
  that may be made under this Policy.
 (iii) Intimation of the Claim, notification of the Claim 
  and submission or provision of all information  
  and documentation shall be made promptly and in 
  any event in accordance with the procedures and 
  within the timeframes specified in Clause 6.1  
  (Claims Procedure and Management) of the  
  Policy. 
 (iv) The Insured Person will, at the request of the  
  Company, submit himself / herself for a medical 
  examination by the Company's nominated  
  Medical Practitioner as often as the Company  
  considers reasonable and necessary. The cost of 
  such examination will be borne by the Company.
 (v) The Company's Medical Practitioner and  
  representatives shall be given access and co- 
  operation to inspect the Insured Person's medical 
  and Hospitalization records and to investigate the 
  facts and examine the Insured Person.
 (vi) The Company shall be provided with complete  
  necessary documentation and information which 
  the Company has requested to establish its  
  liability for the Claim, its circumstances and its  
  quantum.
6.1.4. Claims Intimation 
 Upon the occurrence of any Illness or Injury that may  
 result in a Claim under this Policy, then as a Condition 
 Precedent to the Company's liability under the Policy, all 
 of the following shall be undertaken:
 (i) If any Illness is diagnosed or discovered or any  
  Injury is suffered or any other contingency occurs 
  which has resulted in a Claim or may result in a 
  Claim under the Policy, the Company shall be  
  notified with full particulars within 48 hours from 
  the date of occurrence of event either at the  
  Company's call center or in writing.
 (ii) Claim must be filed within 30 days from the date 
  of discharge from the hospital in case of  
  hospitalization and actual date of loss in case of 
  non-hospitalization Benefits.
  Note: 6.1.4 (i) and 6.1.4 (ii) are precedent to  
  admission of liability under the policy.   
 (iii) The following details are to be disclosed to the  
  Company at the time of intimation of Claim:
  1. Policy Number; 
  2. Name of the Policyholder;
  3. Name of the Insured Person in respect of  
   whom the Claim is being made;
  4. Nature of Illness or Injury; 
Care Classic - CHIHLIP22071V012122
24

--- PAGE 26 ---

  5. Name and address of the attending Medical 
   Practitioner and Hospital; 
  6. Date of admission to Hospital or proposed 
   date of admission to Hospital for planned 
   Hospitalization;
  7. Any other necessary information,
   documentation or details requested by the 
   Company.
 (iv) In case of an Emergency Hospitalization, the  
  Company shall be notified either at the  
  Company's call center or in writing immediately 
  and in any event within 48 hours of
  Hospitalization commencing or before the  
  Insured Person's discharge from Hospital.
 (v) In case of an Planned Hospitalization, the  
  Company shall be notified either at the  
  Company's call center or in writing at least 48  
  hours prior to planned date of admission to  
  Hospital
6.1.5. Documents to be submitted for filing a valid Claim
 The following information and documentation shall be 
 submitted in accordance with the procedures and within 
 the timeframes specified in Clause 6.1 in respect of all 
 Claims:
 1. Duly filled and signed Claim form by the Insured 
  Person;
 2. Copy of Photo ID of Insured Person;
 3. Medical Practitioner's referral letter advising  
  Hospitalization;
 4. Medical Practitioner's prescription advising drugs 
  or diagnostic tests or consultations;
 5. Original bills, receipts and discharge summary  
  from the Hospital/Medical Practitioner;
 6. Original bills from pharmacy/chemists;
 7. Original pathological/diagnostic test  
  reports/radiology reports and payment receipts;
 8. Operation Theatre Notes(if applicable);
 9. Indoor case papers(if applicable);
 10. Original investigation test reports and payment  
  receipts supported by Doctor's reference slip;
 11. MLC/FIR report, Post Mortem Report if  
  applicable and conducted;
 12. Ambulance Receipt;
 13. Any other document as required by the Company 
  to assess the Claim, in case fraud is suspected.
 Notes: 
 - The Company may give a waiver to one or few of 
  the above mentioned documents depending upon 
  the case.
 - Additional documents as specified against any  
  Benefit shall be submitted to the company.
 - The Company will accept bills/invoices which are 
  made in the Insured Person's name only. 
 - The company may seek any other document as  
  required to assess the Claim. 
 - Only in the event that original bills, receipts,  
  prescriptions, reports or other documents have  
  already been given to any other insurance  
  company, the company will accept properly  
  verified photocopies of such documents attested 
  by such other insurance company along with an 
  original certificate of the extent of payment  
  received from such insurance company.
 However, claims filed even beyond the timelines  
 mentioned above should be considered if there are valid 
 reasons for any delay.
6.1.6. Claim Assessment
 a. The Company shall scrutinize the Claim and  
  supportive documents, once received. In case of 
  any deficiency, the Company may call for any  
  additional documents or information as required, 
  based on the circumstances of the Claim. 
 b. All admissible Claims under this Policy shall be 
  assessed by the Company in the following  
  progressive order:
  (i) If a room accommodation has been opted 
   for where the Room Rent or Room  
   Category is higher than the eligible limit as 
   applicable for that Insured Person as  
   specified in the Policy Schedule, then, the 
   Associate Medical Expenses payable shall 
   be pro-rated as per the applicable limits in 
   accordance with Clause 3.1.1(vii) (a).
  (ii) The Deductible (if applicable) shall be  
   applied to the aggregate of all Claims that 
   are either paid or payable under this Policy. 
   The Company's liability to make payment 
   shall commence only once the aggregate  
   amount of all Claims payable or paid  
   exceed the Deductible.
  (iii) Co-payment (if applicable) shall be  
   applicable on the admissible claim amount 
   payable by the Company.
  (iv) The balance amount, if any, subject to the 
applicability of sub-limits, Company's liability to make payment 
   shall be limited to such extent as applicable 
   and shall be the Claim payable
 c. The Claim amount assessed in Clause 6.1.6 (b)  
  above would be deducted from the following  
  amounts in the following progressive order:
  (i) Sum Insured;
  (ii) Additional Sum Insured for Accidental  
   Hospitalization (if applicable);
  (iii) No Claims Bonus(if applicable);
  (iv) Unlimited Automatic Recharge (if
   applicable).
 d. All claims incurred in India are dealt by the  
  Company directly.
6.1.7. Payment Terms
Care Classic - CHIHLIP22071V012122
25

--- PAGE 27 ---

Care Classic - CHIHLIP22071V012122
26
 (a) This Policy covers only medical treatment taken 
  entirely within India. All payments under this  
  Policy shall be made in Indian Rupees and within 
  India. 
 (b) The Company shall have no liability to make  
  payment of a Claim under the Policy in respect of 
  an Insured Person during the Policy Period, once 
  the Sum Insured for that Insured Person is  
  exhausted.
 (c) The Company shall settle or reject any Claim  
  within 30 days of receipt of all the necessary  
  documents / information as required for  
  settlement of such Claim and sought by the  
  Company. The Company shall provide the  
  Policyholder / Insured Person an offer of  
  settlement of Claim and upon acceptance of such 
  offer by the Policyholder / Insured Person the  
  Company shall make payment within 7 days from 
  the date of receipt of such acceptance.
 (d) If the Policyholder / Insured Person suffers a  
  relapse within 45 days of the date of discharge  
  from the Hospital for which a Claim has been  
  made, then such relapse shall be deemed to be part 
  of the same Claim and all the limits for Any One 
  Illness under this Policy shall be applied as if they 
  were under a single Claim.
 (e) The Claim shall be paid only for the Policy Year in 
  which the Insured event which gives rise to a  
  Claim under this Policy occurs.
 (f) The Premium for the policy will remain the same 
  for the policy period mentioned in the Policy  
  Schedule.

--- PAGE 28 ---

Annexure I - List of Expenses Generally Excluded ("Non-medical") in Hospital Indemnity Policy
 Sr. No. LIST - I - OPTIONAL ITEMS
 1 BABY FOOD
 2 BABY UTILITIES CHARGES
 3 BEAUTY SERVICES
 4 BELTS/ BRACES
 5 BUDS
 6 COLD PACK/HOT PACK
 7 CARRY BAGS
 8 EMAIL / INTERNET CHARGES
 9 FOOD CHARGES (OTHER THAN PATIENT's 
  DIET PROVIDED BY HOSPITAL)
 10 LEGGINGS
 11 LAUNDRY CHARGES
 12 MINERAL WATER
 13 SANITARY PAD 
 14 TELEPHONE CHARGES
 15 GUEST SERVICES
 16 CREPE BANDAGE
 17 DIAPER OF ANY TYPE
 18 EYELET COLLAR
 19 SLINGS
 20 BLOOD GROUPING AND CROSS MATCHING 
  OF DONORS SAMPLES
 21 SERVICE CHARGES WHERE NURSING 
  CHARGE ALSO CHARGED
 22 TELEVISION CHARGES
 23 SURCHARGES
 24 ATTENDANT CHARGES
 25 EXTRA DIET OF PATIENT (OTHER THAN 
  THAT WHICH FORMS PART OF BED CHARGE)
 26 BIRTH CERTIFICATE
 27 CERTIFICATE CHARGES
 28 COURIER CHARGES
 29 CONVEYANCE CHARGES
 30 MEDICAL CERTIFICATE
 31 MEDICAL RECORDS
 32 PHOTOCOPIES CHARGES
 33 MORTUARY CHARGES 
 34 WALKING AIDS CHARGES
 35 OXYGEN CYLINDER (FOR USAGE OUTSIDE 
  THE HOSPITAL) 
 36 SPACER
 37 SPIROMETRE 
 38 NEBULIZER KIT
 39 STEAM INHALER
 40 ARMSLING
 41 THERMOMETER
 42 CERVICAL COLLAR
 43 SPLINT
 44 DIABETIC FOOT WEAR
 45 KNEE BRACES (LONG/ SHORT/ HINGED) 
 46 K N E E  I M M O B I L I Z E R / S H O U L D E R  
   IMMOBILIZER
 47 LUMBO SACRAL BELT
 48 NIMBUS BED OR WATER OR AIR BED  
  CHARGES
 49 AMBULANCE COLLAR
 50 AMBULANCE EQUIPMENT
 51 ABDOMINAL BINDER
 52 PRIVATE NURSES CHARGES- SPECIAL 
  NURSING CHARGES 
 53  SUGAR FREE Tablets
 54 CREAMS POWDERS LOTIONS (TOILETRIES 
  ARE NOT PAYABLE, ONLY PRESCRIBED 
  MEDICAL PHARMACEUTICALS PAYABLE)
 55 ECG ELECTRODES
 56 GLOVES
 57 NEBULISATION KIT
 58 ANY KIT WITH NO DETAILS MENTIONED 
  [DELIVERY KIT, ORTHOKIT, RECOVERY KIT, 
  ETC]
 59 KIDNEY TRAY
 60 MASK
 61 OUNCE GLASS
 62 OXYGEN MASK
 63 PELVIC TRACTION BELT 
 64 PAN CAN
 65 TROLLY COVER
 66 UROMETER, URINE JUG
 67 AMBULANCE
 68 VASOFIX SAFETY
 Sr. No. LIST - I - OPTIONAL ITEMS
Care Classic - CHIHLIP22071V012122
27

--- PAGE 29 ---

 Sr. No. LIST - II - ITEMS THAT ARE TO BE SUBSUMED 
  INTO ROOM CHARGES
 1 BABY CHARGES (UNLESS SPECIFIED/INDICATED)
 2 HAND WASH
 3 SHOE COVER
 4 CAPS
 5 CRADLE CHARGES
 6 COMB
 7 EAU-DE-COLOGNE / ROOM FRESHNERS
 8 FOOT COVER
 9 GOWN
 10 SLIPPERS 
 11 TISSUE PAPER
 12 TOOTH PASTE
 13 TOOTH BRUSH
 14 BED PAN
 15 FACE MASK
 16 FLEXI MASK
 17 HAND HOLDER
 18 SPUTUM CUP 
 19 DISINFECTANT LOTIONS
 20 LUXURY TAX
 21 HVAC
 22 HOUSE KEEPING CHARGES 
 23 AIR CONDITIONER CHARGES
 24 IM IV INJECTION CHARGES 
 25 CLEAN SHEET
 26 BLANKET/WARMER BLANKET
 27 ADMISSION KIT
 28 DIABETIC CHART CHARGES
 29 DOCUMENTATION CHARGES / ADMINISTRATIVE 
  EXPENSES
 30 DISCHARGE PROCEDURE CHARGES
 31 DAILY CHART CHARGES
 32 ENTRANCE PASS / VISITORS PASS CHARGES
 33 EXPENSES RELATED TO PRESCRIPTION ON  
  DISCHARGE
 34 FILE OPENING CHARGES 
 35 INCIDENTAL EXPENSES / MISC. CHARGES (NOT 
 EXPLAINED)
  36 PATIENT IDENTIFICATION BAND / NAME TAG
 37 PULSEOXYMETER CHARGES
 Sr. No. List III – ITEMS THAT ARE TO BE SUBSUMED  
  INTO PROCEDURE CHARGES
 1 HAIR REMOVAL CREAM
 2 DISPOSABLES RAZORS CHARGES (for site  
  preparations)
 3 EYE PAD
 4 EYE SHEILD
 5 CAMERA COVER
 6 DVD, CD CHARGES
 7 GAUSE SOFT
 8 GAUZE
 9 WARD AND THEATRE BOOKING CHARGES
 10 ARTHROSCOPY AND ENDOSCOPY  
  INSTRUMENTS
 11 MICROSCOPE COVER 
 12 SURGICAL BLADES, HARMONICSCALPEL, 
  SHAVER
 13 SURGICAL DRILL
 14 EYE KIT
 15 EYE DRAPE
 16 X-RAY FILM
 17 BOYLES APPARATUS CHARGES
 18 COTTON
 19 COTTON BANDAGE
 20 SURGICAL TAPE
 21 APRON
 22 TORNIQUET 
 23 ORTHOBUNDLE, GYNAEC BUNDLE
Care Classic - CHIHLIP22071V012122 
28

--- PAGE 30 ---

 Sr. No. LIST IV – ITEMS THAT ARE TO BE SUBSUMED 
  INTO COSTS OF TREATMENT
 1 ADMISSION/REGISTRATION CHARGES
 2 HOSPITALISATION FOR EVALUATION/  
  DIAGNOSTIC PURPOSE
 3 URINE CONTAINER
 4 BLOOD RESERVATION CHARGES AND ANTE  
  NATAL BOOKING CHARGES
 5 BIPAP MACHINE
 6 CPAP/ CAPD EQUIPMENTS
 7 INFUSION PUMP– COST
 8 HYDROGEN PEROXIDE\SPIRIT\ DISINFECTANTS 
  ETC
 9 NUTRITION PLANNING CHARGES - DIETICIAN  
  CHARGES- DIET CHARGES 
 10 HIV KIT
 11 ANTISEPTIC MOUTHWASH
 12 LOZENGES
 13 MOUTH PAINT
 14 VACCINATION CHARGES
 15 ALCOHOL SWABES
 16 SCRUB SOLUTION/STERILLIUM
 17 GLUCOMETER & STRIPS
 18 URINE BAG
Care Classic - CHIHLIP22071V012122
29

--- PAGE 31 ---

Annexure II - List of Hospitals where Claim will not be admitted
Hospital Name Address
Nulife Hospital And Maternity Centre 1616 Outram Lines,Kingsway Camp,Guru Teg Bahadur Nagar , New Delhi , Delhi
Taneja Hospital F-15,Vikas Marg, Preet Vihar , New Delhi , Delhi
Shri Komal Hospital & Dr.Saxena's Nursing Home Opp. Radhika Cinema,Circular Road , Rewari , Haryana
Sona Devi Memorial Hospital & Trauma Centre Sohna Road, Badshahpur , Gurgaon , Haryana
Amar Hospital Sector-70,S.A.S.Nagar, Mohali, Sector 70 , Mohali , Punjab
Brij Medical Centre K K 54, Kavi Nagar , Ghaziabad , Uttar Pradesh
Famliy Medicare A-55,Sector 61, Rajat Vihar Sector 62 , Noida , Uttar Pradesh
Jeevan Jyoti Hospital 162,Lowther Road, Bai Ka Bagh, Allahabad, Uttar Pradesh
City Hospital & Trauma Centre C-1,Cinder Dump Complex,Opp. Krishna Cinema Hall,Kanpur Road, Alambagh, Lucknow, U.P.
Dayal Maternity & Nursing Home No.953/23,D.C.F.Chowk, DLF Colony , Rohtak , Haryana
Metas Adventist Hospital No.24,Ring-Road,Athwalines, Surat , Gujarat
Surgicare Medical Centre Sai Dwar Oberoi Complex,S.A.B.T.V.Lane Road,Lokhandwala,Near Laxmi Industrial Estate, 
Andheri, Mumbai, Maharashtra
Paramount General Hospital & I.C.C.U. Laxmi Commercial Premises, Andheri Kurla Road, Andheri, Mumbai, Maharashtra
Gokul Hospital Thakur Complex, Kandivali East, Mumbai, Maharashtra
Shree Sai Hospital Gokul Nagri I,Thankur Complex,Western Express Highway, Kandivali East, Mumbai, Maharashtra
Shreedevi Hospital Akash Arcade,Bhanu Nagar,Near Bhanu Sagar Theatre,Dr.Deepak Shetty Road, Kalyan D.C. , Thane , Maharashtra
Saykhedkar Hospital & Research Centre Pvt. Ltd. Trimurthy Chowk,Kamatwada Road,Cidco Colony , Nashik , Maharashtra
Arpan Hospital And Research Centre No.151/2,Imli Bazar,Near Rajwada, Imli Bazar , Indore , Madhya Pradesh
Ramkrishna Care Hospital Aurobindo Enclave,Pachpedhi Naka,Dhamtri Road,National Highway No 43, Raipur , Chhattisgarh
Gupta Multispeciality Hospital B-20, Vivek Vihar, New Delhi, Delhi
R.K.Hospital 3C/59, BP, Near Metro Cinema, New Industrial Township 1, Faridabad, Haryana
Prakash Hospital D -12,12A,12B,Noida, Sector 33 , Noida , Uttar Pradesh
Aryan Hospital Pvt. Ltd. Old Railway Road, Near New Colony, New Colony, Gurgaon, Haryana
Medilink Hospital Research Centre Pvt. Ltd. Near Shyamal Char Rasta,132,Ring Road, Satellite, Ahmedabad, Gujarat
Mohit Hospital Khoya B-Wing, Near National Park, Borivali(E), Kandivali West, Mumbai, Maharashtra
Scope Hospital 628, Niti Khand-I, Indirapuram, Ghaziabad, Uttar Pradesh
Agarwal Medical Centre E-234, Greater Kailash 1, New Delhi , Delhi
Oxygen Hospital Bhiwani Stand, Durga Bhawan, Rohtak, Haryana
Prayag Hospital & Research Centre Pvt. Ltd. J-206 A/1, Sector 41, Noida, Uttar Pradesh
Karnavati Superspeciality Hospital Opposite Sajpur Tower, Naroda Road, Ahmedabad, Gujarat
Palwal Hospital Old G.T. Road, Near New Sohna Mod, Palwal, Haryana
B.K.S. Hospital No.18,1st Cross,Gandhi Nagar, Adyar, Bellary, Karnataka
East West Medical Centre No.711,Sector 14, Sector 14, Gurgaon, Haryana
Jagtap Hospital Anand Nagar,Sinhgood Road , Anandnagar , Pune , Maharashtra
Dr. Malwankar's Romeen Nursing Home Ganesh Marg,Tagore Nagar , Vikhroli East , Mumbai , Maharashtra
Noble Medical Centre SVP Road, Borivali West , Mumbai , Maharashtra
Rama Hospital Sonepat Road,Bahalgarh, Sonipat , Haryana
S.B.Nursing Home & ICU Lake Bloom 16,17,18 Opposite Solaris Estate, L.T.Gate No.6,Tunga Gaon, Saki-Vihar Road, Powai , 
Mumbai , Maharashtra
Akash Arcade,Bhanu Nagar,Near Bhanu Sagar Theatre,Dr.Deepak Shetty Road, Kalyan D.C. , Thane , Maharashtra
Sparsh Multi Speciality Hospital & Trauma 
Care Center 
G.I.D.C Road, Nr Udhana Citizan Co-Op.Bank , Surat , Gujarat
Care Classic - CHIHLIP22071V012122
30

--- PAGE 32 ---

Hospital Name Address
Saraswati Hospital Divya Smruti Building, 1st Floor, Opp. Toyota Showroom, Malad Link Road, Malad West, Mumbai, Maharashtra
Shakuntla Hospital 3-B Tashkant Marg, Near St. Joseph Collage, Allahabad, Uttar Pradesh
Mahaveer Hospital & Trauma Centre 76-E, Station Road, Panki, Kanpur, Uttar Pradesh
Eashwar Lakshmi Hospital Plot No. 9, Near Sub Registrar Office, Gandhi Nagar, Hyderabad, Andhra Pradesh
Amrapali Hospital Plot No. NH-34, P-2, Omega -1, Greater Noida, Noida, Uttar Pradesh
Hardik Hospital 29c, Budh Bazar, Vikas Nagar, New Delhi, Delhi
Jabalpur Hospital & Research Centre Pvt Ltd Russel Crossing, Naptier Town, Jabalpur, Madhya Pradesh
Panvel Hospital Plot No. 260A,Uran Naka, Old Panvel , Navi Mumbai , Maharashtra
Santosh Hospital L-629/631,Hapur Road, Shastri Nagar, Meerut, Uttar Pradesh
Sona Medical Centre 5/58,Near Police Station, Vikas Nagar, Lucknow, Uttar Pradesh
City Super Speciality Hospital Near Mohan Petrol Pump,Gohana Road, Rohtak , Haryana
Navjeevan Hospital & Maternity Centre 753/21,Madanpuri Road, Near Pataudi Chowk, Gurgaon, Haryana
Abhishek Hospital C-12, New Azad Nagar, Kanpur, Kanpur, Uttar Pradesh
Raj Nursing Home 23-A, Park Road, Allahabad, Uttar Pradesh
Sparsh Medicare and Trauma Centre Shakti Khand - III/54 ,Behind Cambridge School , Indirapuram, Ghaziabad , Uttar Pradesh
Saras Healthcare Pvt Ltd. K-112, SEC-12 ,Pratap Vihar , Ghaziabad , Uttar Pradesh
Shivalik Medical Centre Pvt Ltd A-93, Sector 34 , Noida , Uttar Pradesh
Aakanksha Hospital 126, Aaradhnanagar Soc,B/H. Bhulkabhavan School, Aanand-Mahal Rd. , Adajan , Surat , Gujarat
Abhinav Hospital Harsh Apartment,Nr Jamna Nagar Bus Stop, Goddod Road , Surat , Gujarat
Adhar Ortho Hospital Dawer Chambers,Nr. Sub Jail, Ring Road , Surat , Gujarat
Aris Care Hospital A 223-224, Mansarovar Soc,60 Feet, Godadara Road , Surat , Gujarat
Arzoo Hospital Opp. L.B. Cinema, Bhatar Rd. , Surat , Gujarat
Auc Hospital B-44, Gujarat Housing Board, Pandeshara , Surat , Gujarat
Dharamjivan General Hospital & Trauma Centre Karmayogi - 1, Plot No. 20/21, Near Piyush Point, Pandesara , Surat , Gujarat
Dr. Santosh Basotia Hospital Bhatar Road , Bhatar Road , Surat , Gujarat
God Father Hosp. 344, Nandvan Soc., B/H. Matrushakti Soc. , Puna Gam , Surat , Gujarat
Govind-Prabha Arogya Sankool Opp. Ratna-Sagar Vidhyalaya,Kaji Medan, Gopipura , Surat , Gujarat
Jaldhi Ano-Rectal Hospital 103, Payal Apt., Nxt To Rander Zone Office, Tadwadi , Surat , Gujarat
Jeevan Path Gen. Hospital 2nd. Floor, Dwarkesh Nagri, Nr. Laxmi Farsan, Sayan , Surat , Gujarat
Kalrav Children Hospital Yashkamal Complex, Nr. Jivan Jyot, Udhna , Surat , Gujarat
Krishnavati General Hospital Bamroli Road , Surat , Gujarat
Niramayam Hosptial & Prasutigruah Shraddha Raw House, Near Natures Park , Surat , Gujarat
Patna Hospital 25, Ashapuri Soc - 2, Bamroli Road, Surat , Gujarat
Poshia Children Hospital Harekrishan Shoping Complex 1St Floor, Varachha Road , Surat , Gujarat
R.D Janseva Hospital 120 Feet Bamroli Road, Pandesara , Surat , Gujarat
Radha Hospital & Maternity Home 239/240 Bhagunagar Society, Opp Hans Society, L H Road, Varachha Road, Surat , Gujarat
Santosh Hospital L H Road , Varachha , Surat , Gujarat
Notes:
1.     For an updated list of Hospitals, please visit the Company's website.
2.     Only in case of a medical emergency, Claims would be payable if admitted in the above Hospitals on a reimbursement basis.
Getwell Soon Multispeciality Institute Pvt Ltd S-19, Shalimar Garden Extn. , Near Dayanand Park, Sahibabad , Ghaziabad , Uttar Pradesh
Hari Milan Hospital L H Road , Surat , Gujarat
Kanchan General Surgical Hospital Plot No. 380, Ishwarnagar Soc, Bhamroli-Bhatar, Pandesara , Surat , Gujarat
Care Classic - CHIHLIP22071V012122
31

--- PAGE 33 ---

Hospital Name Address
Fortis Flt.Lt.Rajan Dhall Hospital Sector B,Pocket 1, Aruna Asif Ali Marg, Vasant Kunj, New Delhi – 110070
Fortis Escorts Ltd. Majtha-Verka Bypass Road, Khanna Nagar, Amritsar – 143004
Fortis Escorts Hospital Jawahar Lal Nehru Marg, Opposite Hotel Clarks Amer, Malviya Nagar, Jaipur – 302017
Fortis Sl Raheja Hospital Raheja Raghunalaya Marg, Near New Police Quarters Colony, Mahim, Mumbai – 400016
Hiranandani Fortis Hospital Mini Sea Shore Road, Sector 10A, Vashi, Maharashtra – 400703
Fortis Malar Hospital 52,First Main Road, Gandhi Nagar, Adyar, Chennai – 600020
Fortis Hospital Sector 62,Phase VIII, Sector 62, Mohali – 160062
Maxcure Mediciti Hospitals 5-9-22,Secretariat Road, Hill Fort, Hyderabad – 500063
Maxivision Laser Centre Pvt. Ltd. 40-1-48,Krishna Sai Bhavan, Opposite D.V.Manor Hotel, Labbipeta, Vijayawada – 520010
Maxivision Laser Centre Pvt. Ltd. 1-11-252/1A To 1D,Alladin Mansion, Street No 3, Begumpet, Hyderabad – 500016
Maxivision Laser Centre Pvt. Ltd. No.16-11-741/D/66, Dilsukhnagar, Moosa Ram Bagh, Hyderabad – 500036
Maxivision Laser Centre Pvt. Ltd. 6-9-903/A/1/1, Somajiguda, Hyderabad – 500082
Fortis Hospitals Ltd No.730, EM Bypass Road, Anandpur, Kolkata – 700107
Fortis Hospital Ltd Mulund Goregaon Link Road, Mulund, Mumbai – 400078
Fortis Health Management Ltd No.23 80 Feet Road,Guru Krupa Layout, 2nd Stage, Nagarbhavi, Bangalore – 560072
Fortis Hospital A Block, Shalimar Bagh, New Delhi – 110088
Fortis Hospitals Ltd. 111A, Rash Behari Avenue, Rashbehari Avenue, Kolkata – 700029
Fortis Hospital Ltd.-Wockhardt 154,9, Opposite IIM-B, Bannerghatta Road, Bangalore – 560076
Fortis Hospital Ltd Opposite APMC Market,Bail Bazaar, Shill Road, Kalyan City, Kalyan - 421301
International Hospital Limited - Fortis Hospital Ltd No.111,West of Chord Road, 1st Block Junction, Rajajinagar, Bangalore – 560086
Fortis Hospital Ltd.-Wockhardt No.65,1St Main Road, Seshadripuram, Bangalore – 560020
Fortis Memorial Research Institute Sector 44, Opposite HUDA Center Metro Station, HUDA Metro Station, Gurgaon – 122002
Fortis C-Doc Healthcare Limited B-16, Chirag Enclave, Opp Nehru Place, New Delhi – 110041
Max Smart Super Specialty Hospital Press Enclave Marg, Mandir Marg, Saket, New Delhi – 110017
Fortis Escorts Hospital 2nd Floor,Pt Deen Dayal, Coronation Hospital, Curzon Road, Dehradun – 248001
Fortis Healthcare Limited Kangra-Dharamshala Road, Near Main Bus Stand, Kangra – 176001
Maxivision Eye Care Medfort Hospitals No. 78/6, 3rd Avenue, Anna Nagar, Chennai – 600102
Max Vision Eye Care Centre 95,Neel Padam Sarovar Marg, Nursery Circle,Gandhi Path,Nemi Nagar, Vaishali, Jaipur – 302021
Fortis O.P. Jindal Hospital Patrapali, Kharsia Road, Raigarh – 496001
Fortis Hospital Radha Swami Satsang, Chandigarh Road,Village - Mundian, Radha Swami Satsang, 
Ludhiana – 141001
Fortis Medical Centre 2/7, Sarat Bose Road, Kolkata – 700020
Maxcare Hospital And Laparoscopic Surgery Institute 1st Floor,Hyatt Medicare, Plot No.12,Khare Marg, Dhantoli, Nagpur – 440012
Max Care Hospital Near Ashoka Hotel, Opp.Kuda Office, Hanamkonda, Warangal – 506001
Annexure III - List of Hospitals where Co-Payment of 20% is not applicable under Optional Cover “Smart Select”
Note: The below is a Non-exhaustive list of Network Hospitals under Smart Select optional cover. Please check the latest & complete 
list of Network Hospitals on https://www.careinsurance.com/smart-select-network-locator.html
Fortis Hospital Ltd.-Wockhardt No 14,Cunningham Road, Sheriffs Chamber, Cunnigham, Bangalore – 560052
Fortis Suchirayu Hospital S.No.29/8,9,10,11 Javali Garden, Off Gokul Road,Opp. To Reg. KSRTC Bus Depot,Off 
NH4 Highway, Hubli - 580030
Max Vision Advanced Eye Care Centre 216-A,Soham Plaza, Soham Gardens,Opp. Manpada Bus Stop,Chitalsar, Chitalsar G.B 
Road, Thane - 400607
Care Classic - CHIHLIP22071V012122
32

--- PAGE 34 ---

Annexure IV - Service Request Form
To be filled in by Policyholder in CAPITAL LETTERS only.
If there is insufficient space, please provide further details on a separate sheet. All attached documents form part of this service request. 
This form has to be filled in and submitted to the company whenever the nature of job / occupation of any insured covered under the Policy changes 
subsequent to the issuance of the Policy.
For Change in Occupation / Nature of Job 
(Refer Clause 5.2.1 of Policy Terms and Conditions)
  Mr. Ms. M/S.  Policy No : 
Name  : 
   (First Name)   (Middle Name)  (Last Name)
Policyholder Details
  Mr. Ms. M/S.  
Name  : 
   (First Name)   (Middle Name)  (Last Name)
Occupation : 
Details of the Insured Persons for whom details are to be updated
I hereby declare, on my behalf and on behalf of all persons insured, that the above statement(s), answer(s) and / or particular(s) given by me are 
true and complete in all respects to the best of my knowledge and that I am authorized to provide / request for updation of the details on behalf of 
Insured Persons.
Date  :               /              /    Signature of the Policyholder :__________________(DD/MM/YYYY)
Place :                   (On behalf of all the persons insured under the Policy)
Note: The Company shall update its record with respect to the information provided above. Subsequently, the Company may review the risk 
involved and may alter the coverage and / or premium payable accordingly.
Declaration
Care Classic - CHIHLIP22071V012122
34

--- PAGE 35 ---

AHMEDABAD Insurance Ombudsman,
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,
Jeevan Prakash Building, 6th floor, Tilak Marg, Relief Road, 
Ahmedabad – 380 001.
Tel.: 079 - 25501201/02/05/06
E-mail : bimalokpal.ahmedabad@cioins.co.in
Gujarat, Dadra & Nagar 
Haveli, Daman and Diu 
BENGALURU Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,
Jeevan Soudha Building ,PID No. 57-27-N-19
Ground Floor, 19/19, 24th Main Road,
JP Nagar, Ist Phase,
Bengaluru – 560 078.
Tel.: 080 - 26652048 / 26652049
Email: bimalokpal.bengaluru@cioins.co.in
Karnataka
BHOPAL Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,
Janak Vihar Complex, 2nd Floor, 6, Malviya Nagar,
Opp. Airtel Office, Near New Market, Bhopal – 462 003.
Tel.: 0755 - 2769201 / 2769202
Fax: 0755 - 2769203
Email: bimalokpal.bhopal@cioins.co.in
Madhya Pradesh & 
Chhattisgarh
BHUBANESHWAR Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,
62, Forest park, Bhubneshwar – 751 009.
Tel.: 0674 - 2596461 /2596455
Fax: 0674 - 2596429
Email: bimalokpal.bhubaneswar@cioins.co.in
Orissa
CHANDIGARH Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,
S.C.O. No. 101, 102 & 103, 2nd Floor,
Batra Building, Sector 17 – D, Chandigarh – 160 017.
Tel.: 0172 - 2706196 / 2706468
Fax: 0172 - 2708274
Email: bimalokpal.chandigarh@cioins.co.in
Punjab , Haryana, 
Himachal Pradesh, 
Jammu & Kashmir, 
Chandigarh
CHENNAI Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,
Fatima Akhtar Court, 4th Floor, 453, 
Anna Salai, Teynampet, CHENNAI – 600 018.
Tel.: 044 - 24333668 / 24335284
Fax: 044 - 24333664
Email: bimalokpal.chennai@cioins.co.in
Tamil Nadu, Pondicherry 
Town and Karaikal 
(which are part of 
Pondicherry)
DELHI Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,
2/2 A, Universal Insurance Building, Asaf Ali Road,
New Delhi – 110 002.
Tel.: 011 - 23232481 / 23213504
Email: bimalokpal.delhi@cioins.co.in
Delhi
GUWAHATI Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,
Jeevan Nivesh, 5th Floor, Nr. Panbazar over bridge, S.S. Road,
Guwahati – 781001(ASSAM).
Tel.: 0361 - 2632204 / 2602205
Email: bimalokpal.guwahati@cioins.co.in
Assam , Meghalaya, 
Manipur, Mizoram, 
Arunachal Pradesh, 
Nagaland and Tripura 
HYDERABAD Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,
6-2-46, 1st floor, "Moin Court", Lane Opp. Saleem Function 
Palace, A. C. Guards, Lakdi-Ka-Pool, Hyderabad - 500 004.
Tel.: 040 - 67504123 / 23312122 
Fax: 040 - 23376599
Email: bimalokpal.hyderabad@cioins.co.in
Andhra Pradesh, 
Telangana and Yanam – a 
part of Territory of 
Pondicherry
Office of the Ombudsman Contact Details Jurisdiction of Office (Union
Territory, District)
Care Classic - CHIHLIP22071V012122
35
Annexure V - Office of the Ombudsman

--- PAGE 36 ---

Office of the Ombudsman Contact Details Jurisdiction of Office (Union
Territory, District)
JAIPUR Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,
Jeevan Nidhi – II Bldg., Gr. Floor,
Bhawani Singh Marg,
Jaipur - 302 005.
Tel.: 0141 - 2740363
Email: Bimalokpal.jaipur@cioins.co.in
Rajasthan
ERNAKULAM Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,
2nd Floor, Pulinat Bldg., Opp. Cochin Shipyard,
M. G. Road, Ernakulam - 682 015.
Tel.: 0484 - 2358759 / 2359338
Fax: 0484 - 2359336
Email: bimalokpal.ernakulam@cioins.co.in
Kerala, Lakshadweep, Mahe 
– a part of Pondicherry
KOLKATA Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,
Hindustan Bldg. Annexe, 4th Floor, 
4, C.R. Avenue, KOLKATA - 700 072. 
Tel.: 033 - 22124339 / 22124340 
Fax : 033 - 22124341
Email: bimalokpal.kolkata@cioins.co.in
West Bengal, Andaman & 
Nicobar Islands, Sikkim 
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,
6th Floor, Jeevan Bhawan, Phase-II,
Nawal Kishore Road, Hazratganj, Lucknow - 226 001. 
Tel.: 0522 - 2231330 / 2231331
Fax: 0522 - 2231310
Email: bimalokpal.lucknow@cioins.co.in
Districts of Uttar Pradesh :
Laitpur, Jhansi, Mahoba, 
Hamirpur, Banda, Chitrakoot, 
Allahabad, Mirzapur, 
Sonbhabdra, Fatehpur, 
Pratapgarh, Jaunpur,Varanasi, 
Gazipur, Jalaun, Kanpur, 
Lucknow, Unnao, Sitapur, 
Lakhimpur, Bahraich, 
Barabanki, Raebareli, Sravasti, 
Gonda, Faizabad, Amethi, 
Kaushambi, Balrampur, Basti, 
Ambedkarnagar, Sultanpur, 
Maharajgang, Santkabirnagar, 
Azamgarh, Kushinagar, 
Gorkhpur, Deoria, Mau, 
Ghazipur, Chandauli, Ballia, 
Sidharathnagar.
LUCKNOW
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,
3rd Floor, Jeevan Seva Annexe, 
S. V. Road, Santacruz (W),
Mumbai - 400 054.
Tel.: 022 - 69038821/23/24/25/26/27/28/29/30/31
Fax: 022 - 26106052
Email: bimalokpal.mumbai@cioins.co.in
Goa, 
Mumbai Metropolitan 
Region 
excluding Navi Mumbai & 
Thane 
MUMBAI
Care Classic - CHIHLIP22071V012122
36
PATNA Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,
1st Floor,Kalpana Arcade Building,, 
Bazar Samiti Road,
Bahadurpur, Patna 800 006.
Tel.: 0612-2680952
Email: bimalokpal.patna@cioins.co.in
Bihar, Jharkhand

--- PAGE 37 ---

Office of the Ombudsman Contact Details Jurisdiction of Office (Union
Territory, District)
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,
Jeevan Darshan Bldg., 3rd Floor,
C.T.S. No.s. 195 to 198, N.C. Kelkar Road,
Narayan Peth, Pune – 411 030.
Tel.: 020-41312555
Email: bimalokpal.pune@cioins.co.in
Maharashtra,
Area of Navi Mumbai and 
Thane excluding Mumbai 
Metropolitan Region.
PUNE
The updated details of Insurance Ombudsman are available on website of IRDAI:  www.irda.gov.in, on the website of General Insurance 
Council: www.gicouncil.org.in, on the Company's website www.careinsurance.com or from any of the Company's offices. Address and contact 
number of Executive Council of Insurers –
Office of the ‘Executive Council of Insurers’
3rd Floor, Jeevan Seva Annexe,                                                        
S.V. Road, Santacruz(W),                                       
Mumbai - 400 054.                                             
Tel : 022-69038801/03/04/05/06/07/08/09                        
Email- inscoun@cioins.co.in
Care Classic - CHIHLIP22071V012122
37
NOIDA Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,
Bhagwan Sahai Palace 
4th Floor, Main Road,
Naya Bans, Sector 15,
Distt: Gautam Buddh Nagar,
U.P-201301.
Tel.: 0120-2514252 / 2514253
Email: bimalokpal.noida@cioins.co.in
State of Uttaranchal and the 
following Districts of Uttar 
Pradesh: Agra, Aligarh, Bagpat, 
Bareilly, Bijnor, Budaun, 
Bulandshehar, Etah, Kanooj, 
Mainpuri, Mathura, Meerut, 
Moradabad, Muzaffarnagar, 
Oraiyya, Pilibhit, Etawah, 
Farrukhabad, Firozbad, 
Gautambodhanagar, Ghaziabad, 
Hardoi, Shahjahanpur, Hapur, 
Shamli, Rampur, Kashganj, 
Sambhal, Amroha, Hathras, 
Kanshiramnagar, Saharanpur

--- PAGE 38 ---

Ver:Dec/21
Care Health Insurance Limited
(Formerly Religare Health Insurance Company Limited)
Registered Office: 5th Floor, 19 Chawla House, Nehru Place, New Delhi-110019
Correspondence Office: Unit No. 604 - 607, 6th Floor, Tower C, Unitech Cyber Park, Sector-39,
Gurugram -122001 (Haryana)
CIN: U66000DL2007PLC161503    UIN: CHIHLIP22071V012122
IRDAI Registration Number - 148
WhatsApp
8860402452
Care Health-
Customer App
REACH US @
Self Help Portal:
www.careinsurance.com/self-help-portal.html
Submit Your Queries/Requests: 
www.careinsurance.com/contact-us.html