--- PAGE 1 ---

Optima Restore – Policy Wordings               
 
 
  
 
1 
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited. IRDAI Reg. No.146. CIN: U66030MH2007PLC177117. Registered & Corporate Office: 
1st Floor, HDFC House, 165 -166 Backbay Reclamation, H. T. Parekh Marg, Churchgate, Mumbai – 400 020. Trade Logo displayed above 
belongs to HDFC Ltd and ERGO International AG and used by the  Company under license. Optima Restore: HDFHLIP22193V072122        
OPTIMA RESTORE  
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited  will cover all  the Insured Persons under this Policy upto 
the Sum Insured. The insurance cover is governed by, and subject to, the terms, conditions and exclusions 
of this Policy. 
 
Section A) Definition: Other Important Terms You should know 
 
The terms defined below and at other junctures in the Policy Wording have the meanings ascribed to 
them wherever they appear in this Policy and, where appropriate, references to the singular include 
references to the plural; references to the male include the female and references to any statutory 
enactment include subsequent changes to the same: 
1. Standard Definition 
Def. 1. Accident means a sudden, unfores een and involuntary event caused by external, visible and 
violent means. 
Def. 2. Any one illness  means continuous Period of illness and it includes relapse within 45 days  from  
the  date  of  last  consultation  with  the  Hospital/Nursing  Home  where treatment was been 
taken. 
Def. 3. Cashless facility means a facility extended by the insurer to the insure d where the payments, of 
the costs of treatment undergone by the insured in accordance with the policy terms and 
conditions, are directly made to the network provider by the insurer to the extent pre -
authorization approved. 
Def. 4. Condition Precedent  means a policy term or condition upon which the Insurer’s liability under 
the policy is conditional upon. 
Def. 5. Congenital Anomaly refers to a condition(s) which is present since birth, and which is abnormal 
with reference to form, structure or position 
(a)  Internal Congenital Anomaly  - Congenital Anomaly which is not in the visible and 
accessible parts of the body 
(b) External Congenital Anomaly -  Congenital Anomaly which is in the visible and 
accessible parts of the body 
Def. 6. Co-payment means a cost -sharing requirement u nder a health insurance policy that provides 
that the policyholder/insured will bear a specified percentage of the admissible claim amount. A 
co-payment does not reduce the Sum Insured. 
  
Def. 7. Cumulative Bonus (Multiplier Benefit)  means any increase in the Sum Insured granted by the 
insurer without an associated increase in premium. 
Def. 8. Critical Illness means  Cancer of specified severity, Open Chest CABG, First Heart Attack of 
specified severity, Kidney Failure requiring regular dialys is, Major Organ/Bone Marrow 
Transplant, Multiple Sclerosis with Persisting Symptoms, Permanent Paralysis of Limbs, Stroke 
resulting in Permanent Symptoms as defined below only:   
 
i) Cancer of specified severity: 
 A malignant tumour characterised by the uncon trolled growth & spread of malignant 
cells with invasion & destruction of normal tissues. This diagnosis must be supported by 
histological evidence of malignancy & confirmed by a pathologist.  
  The term cancer includes leukemia, lymphoma and sarcoma.  
  The following are excluded:  
 Tumours showing the malignant changes of carcinoma in situ & tumours which 
are histologically described as pre -malignant or non -invasive, including but not 
limited to: Carcinoma in situ of breasts, Cervical dysplasia CIN-1, CIN -2 & CIN-3.  
 Any skin cancer other than invasive malignant melanoma  

--- PAGE 2 ---

Optima Restore – Policy Wordings               
 
 
  
 
2 
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited. IRDAI Reg. No.146. CIN: U66030MH2007PLC177117. Registered & Corporate Office: 
1st Floor, HDFC House, 165 -166 Backbay Reclamation, H. T. Parekh Marg, Churchgate, Mumbai – 400 020. Trade Logo displayed above 
belongs to HDFC Ltd and ERGO International AG and used by the  Company under license. Optima Restore: HDFHLIP22193V072122        
 All tumours of the prostate unless histologically classified as having a Gleason 
score greater than 6 or having progressed to at least clinical TNM classification 
T2N0M0......... 
 Papillary micro - carcinoma of the thyroid less than 1 cm in diameter  
 Chronic lymphocytic leukemia less than RAI stage 3  
 Micro carcinoma of the bladder  
 All tumours in the presence of HIV infection. 
 
ii) Open Chest CABG: 
 The actual undergoing of open chest surgery for the correction of one or  more coronary 
arteries, which is/are narrowed or blocked, by coronary artery bypass graft (CABG). The 
Diagnosis must be supported by coronary angiography and realisation of the surgery has 
to be confirmed by a specialist Medical Practitioner  
  The following are excluded:  
 Angioplasty and / or Any other intra-arterial procedures 
 Any Key-hole surgery or laser surgery 
 
iii) First Heart Attack of Specified Severity: 
 The first occurrence of myocardial infarction which means the death of a portion of the 
heart muscle as a result of inadequate blood supply to the relevant area.  
  The diagnosis for this will be evidenced by all of the following criteria:  
 A history of typical clinical symptoms consistent with the diagnosis of Acute 
Myocardial Infarction (for e.g. typical chest pain). 
 New characteristic electrocardiogram changes. 
 Elevation of infarction specific enzymes, Troponins or other specific 
biochemical markers.  
   The following are excluded:  
 Non-ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction (NSTEMI) with elevation of 
Troponin I or T. 
 Other acute Coronary Syndromes.  
 Any type of angina pectoris 
 
iv) Kidney Failure requiring Regular Dialysis: 
 End stage renal disease presented as chronic irreversible failure of both kidneys to 
function, as a result of which eith er regular renal dialysis (haemodialysis or peritoneal 
dialysis) is instituted or renal transplantation is carried out.  
  The diagnosis has to be confirmed by a specialist Medical Practitioner  
 
v) Major Organ/ Bone Marrow Transplant: 
  The actual undergoing of a transplant of: 
 One of the following human organs - heart, lung, liver, pancreas, kidney, that 
resulted from irreversible end-stage failure of the relevant organ or; 
 Human bone marrow using hematopoietic stem cells.  
 
 The undergoing of a transplant must be confirmed by specialist medical practitioner.  
  The following are excluded:  
 Other Stem-cell transplants 
 Where only islets of langerhans are transplanted 
 
vi) Multiple Sclerosis with Persisting Symptoms: 

--- PAGE 3 ---

Optima Restore – Policy Wordings               
 
 
  
 
3 
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited. IRDAI Reg. No.146. CIN: U66030MH2007PLC177117. Registered & Corporate Office: 
1st Floor, HDFC House, 165 -166 Backbay Reclamation, H. T. Parekh Marg, Churchgate, Mumbai – 400 020. Trade Logo displayed above 
belongs to HDFC Ltd and ERGO International AG and used by the  Company under license. Optima Restore: HDFHLIP22193V072122        
 The definite occurrence of Multiple Sclerosis.The diagnosis must be supported by all of 
the following:  
 Investigation including typical MRI and CSF findings, which unequivocally 
confirm the diagnosis to be multiple Sclerosis. 
 There must be current clinical  impairment of motor or sensory function, which 
must have persisted for a continuous period of atleast 6 months.  
 Well documented clinical history of exacerbations and remissions of said 
symptoms or neurological deficits with atleast two clinically documen ted 
episodes atleast 1 month apart. 
  Excluded is:  
 Other causes of neurological damage such as SLE and HIV  are excluded  
 
vii) Permanent Paralysis of Limbs: 
 Total and irreversible loss of use of two or more limbs as a result of injury or disease of 
the brain or spinal cord. A specialist Medical Practitioner (Physician / Neurologist) must 
be of the opinion that paralysis will be permanent with no hope of recovery and must be 
present for more than 3 months. . 
   
viii) Stroke resulting in Permanent Symptoms: 
 Any cerebrovascular incident producing permanent neurological sequelae. This includes 
infarction of brain tissue, thrombosis in an intra -cranial vessel, haemorrhage and 
embolisation from an extracranial source.  
 The diagnosis has to be confirmed by a specialist Me dical Practitioner and evidenced by 
typical clinical symptoms as well as typical findings in CT Scan or MRI of the brain.  
 Evidence of permanent neurological deficit lasting for atleast 3 months has to be 
produced.  
  The following are excluded:  
 Transient ischemic attacks (TIA) 
 Traumatic injury of the brain 
 Vascular diseases affecting only the eye or optic nerve or vestibular functions  
 
Def. 9. Day Care centre  means any institution established for day care treatment of illness and/or 
injuries or a medical  setup within a hospital and which has been registered with the local 
authorities, wherever applicable, and is under the supervision of a registered and qualified 
medical practitioner AND must comply with all minimum criteria as under— 
-has qualified nursing staff under its employment; 
-has qualified medical practitioner/s in charge; 
-has a fully equipped operation theatre of its own where surgical procedures are carried out;  
-maintains daily records of patients and will make these accessible to the insuran ce company’s 
authorized personnel 
 
Def. 10. Day Care Procedures means those medical treatment, and/or surgical procedure  
i. which is undertaken under General or Local Anaesthesia in a Hospital/day care centre in less than 
24  hours because of technological advancement,   
ii. which would have otherwise required a Hospitalisation of more than 24 hours.  
 Treatment normally taken on an Out-patient basis is not included in the scope of this definition 
 
Def. 11. Deductible means a cost -sharing requirement under a health insurance policy that provides that 
the insurer will not be liable for a specified rupee amount in case of indemnity policies and for a 
specified number of days/hours in case of hospital cash policies which will apply before any 
benefits are payable by the insurer. A deductible does not reduce the Sum Insured.  

--- PAGE 4 ---

Optima Restore – Policy Wordings               
 
 
  
 
4 
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited. IRDAI Reg. No.146. CIN: U66030MH2007PLC177117. Registered & Corporate Office: 
1st Floor, HDFC House, 165 -166 Backbay Reclamation, H. T. Parekh Marg, Churchgate, Mumbai – 400 020. Trade Logo displayed above 
belongs to HDFC Ltd and ERGO International AG and used by the  Company under license. Optima Restore: HDFHLIP22193V072122        
 
Def. 12. Dental   treatment    means a treatment related to teeth or structures supporting teeth including 
examinations, filings (where appropriate), crowns, extractions and surgery.   
 
Def. 13. Domiciliary Hospitalisation  medical treatment for an illness/disease/injury which in the normal 
course would require a care and treatment at a Hospital but is actually taken while confined at 
home under any of the following circumstances: 
- The condition of the patient is such that he/she is not in a condition to be removed to 
a hospital, or 
- The patient takes treatment at home on account of non -availability of a room in a 
hospital      
 
Def. 14. Disclosure of information norm  means the policy shall be void and all premiums paid hereon 
shall be forfeited to the Company, in the event of misrepresentation, mis -description or non -
disclosure of any material fact. 
 
Def. 15. Emergency Care means management for a severe illness or injury which  results in symptoms 
which occur suddenly and unexpectedly, and requires immediate care by a medical practitioner 
to prevent death or serious long term impairment of the insured person’s health.  
 
Def. 16. Grace Period means the specified period of time immediately following the premium due date 
during which a payment can be made to renew or continue a Policy in force without loss of 
continuity benefits such as waiting period s and coverage of Pre-Existing Diseases. Coverage is not 
available for the period for which no premium is received. 
 
Def. 17. Hospital means any institution established for in -patient care and day care treatment of illness 
and/or injuries and which has been registered as a hospital with the local authorities under the 
Clinical Establishments (Registration and Regulation) Act, 2010 or und er the enactments specified 
under the Schedule of Section 56(1) of the said Act OR complies with all minimum criteria as 
under:  
 has qualified nursing staff under its employment round the clock, 
 has at least 10 in -patient beds, in those towns having a popu lation of less than 10,00,000 
and 15 in-patient beds in all other places 
 has qualified Medical Practitioner(s) in charge round the clock,  
 has a fully equipped operation theatre of its own where surgical procedures are carried out,  
 maintains daily records of patients and will make these accessible to the insurance 
company’s authorized personnel.  
 
Def. 18. Hospitalisation means admission in a Hospital for a minimum of 24 consecutive ‘In -patient Care’ 
hours except for specified procedures / treatments, where such adm ission could be for a period 
of less than 24 consecutive hours. 
 
Def. 19. Illness means  a  sickness  or  a  disease  or  pathological  condition  leading  to  the impairment of 
normal physiological function and requires medical treatment  
a) Acute Condition- Acute condition is a disease, illness or injury that is likely to respond quickly to 
treatment which aims to return the person to his or her state of health immediately before 
suffering the disease/illness/injury which leads to full recovery. 
b) Chronic Condition - A c hronic condition is defined  as disease, illness, or injury that has one or 
more of the following characteristics:  
- it needs ongoing or long -term monitoring through consultations, examinations, check -ups, and 
/ or tests 

--- PAGE 5 ---

Optima Restore – Policy Wordings               
 
 
  
 
5 
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited. IRDAI Reg. No.146. CIN: U66030MH2007PLC177117. Registered & Corporate Office: 
1st Floor, HDFC House, 165 -166 Backbay Reclamation, H. T. Parekh Marg, Churchgate, Mumbai – 400 020. Trade Logo displayed above 
belongs to HDFC Ltd and ERGO International AG and used by the  Company under license. Optima Restore: HDFHLIP22193V072122        
—it needs ongoing or long-term control or relief of symptoms 
— it requires rehabilitation for the patient or for the patient to be  specially trained to cope with 
it 
—it continues indefinitely 
—it recurs or is likely to recur 
 
Def. 20. Injury means accidental physical bodily harm excluding illness or disease solely and directly 
caused by external, violent and visible and evident means which is verified and certified by a 
Medical Practitioner. 
 
Def. 21. In-patient Care means treatment for which the Insured Person has to stay in a Hospital for more 
than 24 hours for a covered event. 
 
Def. 22. Intensive Care Unit means an identified section, ward or wing of a Hospital which is under the 
constant supervision of a dedicated Medical Practitioner(s), and which is specially equipped for 
the continuous monitoring and treatment of patients who are in a critical condition, or require 
life support facilities and where the level of care and supervision is considerably more 
sophisticated and intensive than in the ordinary and other wards.   
 
Def. 23. ICU (Intensive Care Unit) Charges means the amount charged by a Hospital towards ICU 
expenses which shall include the coverage for bed, general medical support services provided to 
any ICU patient including monitoring devices, critical care nursing and intensive charges.  
 
Def. 24. Maternity expenses means 
i. medical treatment expenses traceable to childbirth (including complicated deliveries 
and caesarean sections during hospitalization); 
ii. expenses towards lawful medical termination of pregnancy during the Policy Period. 
 
Def. 25. Medical Advice means any consultation or advise from a Medical Practitioner including the issue 
of any prescription or repeat prescription. 
 
Def. 26. Medical Expenses means those expenses that an Insured Person has necessarily and actually 
incurred for medical treatment on account of illness or Accident on the advice of a Medical 
Practitioner, as long as these are no more than would have been payable if the Insured Pers on 
had not been insured and no more than other Hospitals or doctors in the same locality would 
have charged for the same medical treatment.  
 
Def. 27. Medically Necessary Treatment means any treatment, test, medication, or stay in Hospital or 
part of stay in Hospital which 
 Is required for the medical management of the Illness or injury suffered by the Insured ;  
 Must not exceed the level of care necessary to provide safe, adequate and appropriate 
medical care in scope, duration or intensity. 
 Must have been prescribed by a Medical Practitioner. 
 Must conform to the professional standards widely accepted in international medical 
practice or by the medical community in India. 
 
Def. 28. Medical Practitioner means a person who holds a valid registration from the medical council of 
any state or medical council of India or council for Indian medicine or for homeopathy set up by 
the government of India or a state government and is thereby entitled to practice medicine  
within its jurisdiction; and is acting within the scope and jurisdiction of license.  
 

--- PAGE 6 ---

Optima Restore – Policy Wordings               
 
 
  
 
6 
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited. IRDAI Reg. No.146. CIN: U66030MH2007PLC177117. Registered & Corporate Office: 
1st Floor, HDFC House, 165 -166 Backbay Reclamation, H. T. Parekh Marg, Churchgate, Mumbai – 400 020. Trade Logo displayed above 
belongs to HDFC Ltd and ERGO International AG and used by the  Company under license. Optima Restore: HDFHLIP22193V072122        
Def. 29. Migration means the right accorded to individual health insurance policyholders (including all 
members under family cover and members of group health insurance policy) t o transfer the 
credits gained for pre-existing conditions and time-bound exclusions, with the same insurer.  
 
Def. 30. Network Provider means Hospital enlisted by an insurer or a TPA or jointly by an insurer and a 
TPA to provide medical services to an insured by a cashless facility  
 
Def. 31. New Born Baby means baby born during the Policy Period and is aged up to 90 days.  
 
Def. 32. Non Network Provider means any Hospital, day care centre or other provider that is not part of 
the Network 
 
Def. 33. Notification of Claim means the process of intimating a  claim to the insurer or TPA through any 
of the recognized modes of communication. 
 
Def. 34. OPD treatment means the one in which the Insured visits a clinic / hospital or associated facility 
like a consultation room for diagnosis  and treatment based on the advice of a Medical 
Practitioner. The Insured is not admitted as a day care or in-patient 
 
Def. 35. Portability means the right accorded to individual health insurance policyholders (including all 
members under family cover) to transfer the credits gained for pre -existing conditions and time -
bound exclusions, from one insurer to another insurer. 
 
Def. 36. Pre-existing Disease means any condition, ailment, injury or disease: 
a) That is/are diagnosed by a physician within 48 months prior to the effecti ve date of the policy 
issued by the insurer or its reinstatement 
b) For which medical advice or treatment was recommended by, or received from, a physician 
within 48 months prior to the effective date of the policy issued by the insurer or its 
reinstatement. 
 
Def. 37. Pre- Hospitalisation Medical Expenses means the medical expenses incurred during predefined 
number of days preceding the hospitalization of the Insured Person, provided that:  
i. Such Medical Expenses are incurred for the same condition for which the Insured Person’s 
Hospitalisation was required, and 
ii. The In -patient Hospitalization claim for such Hospitalization is admissible by the Insurance 
Company 
 
Def. 38. Post- Hospitalisation Medical Expenses means medical expenses incurred during predefined 
number of days immedia tely after the insured person is discharged from the hospital provided 
that: 
i. Such Medical Expenses are for the same condition for which the insured person’s 
hospitalization was required, and 
ii. The inpatient hospitalization claim for such hospitalization is a dmissible by the insurance 
company 
 
Def. 39. Qualified Nurse is a person who holds a valid registration from the nursing council of India or the 
nursing council of any state in India 
 
Def. 40. Reasonable & Customary Charges  means the charges for services or supplies, which are the 
standard charges for a specific provider and consistent with the prevailing charges in the 

--- PAGE 7 ---

Optima Restore – Policy Wordings               
 
 
  
 
7 
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited. IRDAI Reg. No.146. CIN: U66030MH2007PLC177117. Registered & Corporate Office: 
1st Floor, HDFC House, 165 -166 Backbay Reclamation, H. T. Parekh Marg, Churchgate, Mumbai – 400 020. Trade Logo displayed above 
belongs to HDFC Ltd and ERGO International AG and used by the  Company under license. Optima Restore: HDFHLIP22193V072122        
geographical area for identical or similar services, taking into account the nature of illness/ injury 
involved. 
 
Def. 41. Room Rent means the amount charged by a hos pital towards room and boarding expenses and 
shall include associated medical expenses. 
 
Def. 42. Renewal means the terms on which the contract of insurance can be renewed on mutual consent 
with a provision of grace period for treating the renewal continuous for the purpose of gaining 
credit for pre-existing diseases, time bound exclusions and for all waiting periods.  
 
Def. 43. Surgery or Surgical Procedure means manual and/or operative procedure(s) required for 
treatment of an Illness or injury, correction of deformities and defects, diagnosis and cure of 
diseases, relief from suffering or  prolongation of life, performed in a Hospital or day care centre 
by a Medical Practitioner. 
 
Def. 44. Unproven/Experimental treatment means treatment including drug experimental therapy which 
is not based on established medical practice in India, is treatment experimental or unproven.  
 
2. Specific Definition 
 
Def. 1. Adventurous/Hazardous Sports means any sport or activity involving physical exertion and skill 
in which an Insured Person participates or competes for entertainment or as part of his 
Profession whether he / she is trained or not.  
 
Def. 2. Age or Aged means completed years as at the Commencement Date.  
 
Def. 3. Alternative treatments means forms of treatments other than treatment "Allopathy" or 
"modern medicine"  and includes Ayurveda, Unani, Sidha and Homeopathy in the Indian context  
 
Def. 4. Bank Rate means the rate fixed by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) at the beginning of the 
financial year in which claim has fallen due.  
 
Def. 5. Commencement Date means the commencement date of this Policy as specified in the Schedule.  
 
Def. 6. Contribution means essentially the ri ght of an insurer to call upon other insurers liable to the 
same insured to share the cost of an indemnity claim on a rateable proportion of Sum Insured. 
This clause shall not apply to any Benefit offered on fixed benefit basis.  
 
Def. 7. Dependents means only the family members listed below: 
i) Your legally married spouse as long as she continues to be married to You; 
ii) Your children Aged between 91 days and 25 years if they are unmarried 
iii) Your natural parents or parents that have legally adopted You, provided that the parent was 
below 65 years at his initial participation in the Optima Restore Policy. 
iv) Your Parent -in-law as long as Your spouse continues to be married to You and  were below 65 
years at his initial participation in the Optima Restore Policy. 
            All Dependent parents must be financially dependent on You.  
 
Def. 8. Dependent Child means a child (natural or legally adopted), who is unmarried,  Aged between 91 
days and 25 years, financially dependent on the primary Insured or Proposer and does not have 
his / her independent sources of income.  
 

--- PAGE 8 ---

Optima Restore – Policy Wordings               
 
 
  
 
8 
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited. IRDAI Reg. No.146. CIN: U66030MH2007PLC177117. Registered & Corporate Office: 
1st Floor, HDFC House, 165 -166 Backbay Reclamation, H. T. Parekh Marg, Churchgate, Mumbai – 400 020. Trade Logo displayed above 
belongs to HDFC Ltd and ERGO International AG and used by the  Company under license. Optima Restore: HDFHLIP22193V072122        
Def. 9. Insured Person means You and the persons named in the Schedule. 
 
Def. 10. Family Floater  means a Policy described as such in the Schedule where under You and Your 
Dependents named in the Schedule are insured under this Policy as at the Commencement Date.  
The Sum Insured for a Family Floater means t he sum shown in the Schedule which represent s 
Our maximum liability for any and all claims made by You and/or all of Your Dependents during 
the Policy Period. 
 
Def. 11. Material Facts means all relevant information sought by the Company in the 
Proposal Form and other connected documents to enable it to take informed 
decision in the context of underwriting the risk. 
 
Def. 12. Policy means Your statements in the proposal form (which are the basis of this 
Policy), this policy wording (including endorsements, if any), Annexure 1 and the 
policy schedule (as the same may be amended from time to time).   
 
Def. 13. Policy Period means the period between the Commencement Date and the Expiry 
Date specified in the Schedule. 
 
Def. 14. Policy Year means a year following the Commencement Date and its subsequent 
annual anniversary.  
 
Def. 15. TPA means the third party administrator that We appoint from time to time as 
specified in the Schedule. 
 
Def. 16. We/Our/Us means the HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited 
 
Def. 17. You/Your/Policyholder means the person named in the Schedule who has 
concluded this Policy with Us. 
 
Section B) Benefits 
 
1. In-patient Benefits 
This section of benefits is applicable when 
 An insured suffers an Accident or Illness, which is covered under this Policy 
 Hospitalisation is necessary & is done for treatment OR 
 Day care treatment is necessary and is done OR 
 Domiciliary treatment is necessary and is done 
 
IMPORTANT: Claims made under these benefits will impact eligibility for Multiplier Benefit.  
 
 We will cover the Medical Expenses 
for: 
In addition t o the waiting periods 
(Section C.1) and general exclusions  
(Section C.2 & C.3), We will also not cover 
expenses 
 a. In-patient Treatment. This includes 
 Hospital room rent or boarding; 
 Nursing; 
 Intensive Care Unit 
 Medical Practitioners (Fees) 
If as per any or all of the Medical 
references herein below containing 
guidelines and protocols for Evidence 
Based Medicines, the Hospitalisation for 
treatment under claim is not necessary or 
 
Important terms You 
should know.  
 
Medical Practitioner  
means a person who 
holds a valid 
registration from the 
Medical Council of any 
State or Medical 
Council of India or 
Council for Indian 
Medicine or for 
Homeopathy set up by 
the Government of 
India or a State 
Government and is 
thereby entitled to 
practice medicine 
within its jurisdiction; 
and is acting within 
the scope  and 
jurisdiction of licence. 
And is NOT a member 
of the Insured Person’s 
family or stays with 
him. 
 
 
Shared 
accommodation 
means a Hospital room 
with two or more 
patient beds. 
 
 
Single occupancy or 
any higher 
accommodation n 
type means a Hospital 
room with only one 
patient bed. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

--- PAGE 9 ---

Optima Restore – Policy Wordings               
 
 
  
 
9 
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited. IRDAI Reg. No.146. CIN: U66030MH2007PLC177117. Registered & Corporate Office: 
1st Floor, HDFC House, 165 -166 Backbay Reclamation, H. T. Parekh Marg, Churchgate, Mumbai – 400 020. Trade Logo displayed above 
belongs to HDFC Ltd and ERGO International AG and used by the  Company under license. Optima Restore: HDFHLIP22193V072122        
 Anaesthesia 
 Blood 
 Oxygen 
 Operation theatre 
 Surgical appliances; 
 Medicines, drugs & consumables; 
 Diagnostic procedures. 
 
the stay at the hospital is found unduly 
long:   
 
 Medical text books,  
 Standard treatment guidelines as 
stated in clinical establishment 
act of Government of India,  
 World Health Organisation 
(WHO) protocols,  
 Published guidelines by 
healthcare providers, 
 Guidelines set by medical 
societies like cardiological society 
of Indi a, neurological society of 
India etc. 
 b. Pre-Hospitalisation expenses for  
consultations, investigations and 
medicines incurred upto 60 days 
before the date of admission to the 
hospital (In-patient OR Day Care OR 
Domiciliary treatment). 
i) Claims which have NOT been 
admitted under 1 a) and 1d). 
ii) Expenses not related to the admission 
and not incidental to the treatment 
for which the admission has taken 
place. 
 c. Post-Hospitalisation expenses for 
consultations, investigations and 
medicines incurred upto 180 days 
after discharge from the Hospital 
(In-patient OR Day Care OR 
Domiciliary treatment). 
i) Claims which have NOT been 
admitted under 1 a) and 1d). 
ii) Expenses not related to the admission 
and not incidental to the treatment 
for which the admission has taken 
place. 
 d. Day Care Procedures  
 
Medical treatment or surgical 
procedure which is undertaken 
under general or local anaesthesia, 
which require admission in a 
Hospital/Day Care Centre for stay 
less than 24 hours. Treatment 
normally taken on out-patient basis 
is not included in the scope of this 
definition. 
i) Treatment that can be and is usually 
taken on an out-patient basis is not 
covered.  
ii) Treatment NOT taken at a Hospital  or 
Day-care centre. 
 
 e. Domiciliary Treatment 
Medical treatment for an  
Illness/disease/injury which in the 
normal course would require care 
and treatment at a Hospital but is 
actually taken while confined at 
home under any of the following 
circumstances: 
i. The condition of the patient is 
such that he/she is not in a 
condition to be removed to a 
Hospital or,  
ii. The patient takes treatment at 
1. Treatment of less than 3 days 
(Coverage will be provided for 
expenses incurred in first three days 
only if treatment period is greater 
than three days). 
 
 
Important terms You 
should know.  
 
Sum Insured  means the 
sum shown in the 
Schedule which 
represents Our 
maximum liability for 
each Insured Person for 
any and all benefits 
claimed for during the 
Policy Period, and in 
relation to a Family 
Floater represents Our 
maximum liability for 
any and all claims m ade 
by You and all of Your 
Dependents during the 
Policy Period. 
 
In-patient Care  means 
treatment for which the 
Insured Person has to 
stay in a Hospital for 
more than 24 hours for 
a covered event. 
 
Out-patient Treatment  
means the medical 
consultation, 
investigations or 
treatment taken in a  
clinic / hospital or 
associated facility like a 
consultation room . 
Important to note that 
out-patient treatment 
does not require 
admission to day care or 
in-patient sections of 
hospital. 
 

--- PAGE 10 ---

Optima Restore – Policy Wordings               
 
 
  
 
10 
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited. IRDAI Reg. No.146. CIN: U66030MH2007PLC177117. Registered & Corporate Office: 
1st Floor, HDFC House, 165 -166 Backbay Reclamation, H. T. Parekh Marg, Churchgate, Mumbai – 400 020. Trade Logo displayed above 
belongs to HDFC Ltd and ERGO International AG and used by the  Company under license. Optima Restore: HDFHLIP22193V072122        
home on account of non 
availability of room in a 
Hospital.  
Pre and Post  Hospitalisation 
expenses for consultations, 
investigations and medicines 
incurred upto 60 days before 
hospitalisation and 180 days after 
hospitalization respectively  will be 
covered in case of domiciliary 
treatment. 
 f. Organ Donor:  
 
Medical and surgical Expenses of 
the organ donor for harvesting the 
organ where an Insured Person is 
the recipient. 
IMPORTANT: Expenses incurred by 
an insured person while donating 
an organ is NOT covered. 
1. Claims which have NOT been 
admitted under 1a) for insured 
member. 
2. Admission not compliant under the 
Transplantation of Human Organs 
Act, 1994 (as amended). 
3. The organ donor’s Pre and Post -
Hospitalisation expenses.  
 g.  Ambulance Cover 
 
Expenses incurred on 
transportation of Insured Person to 
a Hospital for treatment in case of  
an Emergency, subject to Rs. 2000 
per Hospitalisation. 
1. Claims which have NOT been 
admitted under Section 1a)  and 
Section 1d). 
 
2. Healthcare or ambulance service 
provider not registered with road 
traffic authority. 
 h. Daily Cash for choosing shared 
Accommodation   
Daily cash amount will be payable 
per day  as mentioned in schedule 
of benefits if  the Insured Person is 
hospitalised in Shared 
Accommodation in a Network 
Hospital for each continuous and 
completed period of 24 hours if the 
Hospitalisation exceeds 48 hours. 
 
 
1. Daily Cash Benefit for time spent by 
the Insured Person in an intensive 
care unit 
2. Claims which have NOT been 
admitted under 1a). 
 i.   E -Opinion in respect of a Critical 
Illness  
We shall arrange and pay for a 
second opinion from Our panel of 
medical Practitioners, if: 
-The Insured Person suffers a 
Critical Illness during the Poli cy 
Period; and 
-He requests an E-opinion; and 
 
The Insured Person can choose one 
of Our panel Medical Practitioners. 
The opinion will be directly sent to 
1. More than one claim for this benefit 
in a Policy Year. 
2. Any other liability due to any errors or 
omission or representation or 
consequences of any action taken in 
reliance of the E -opinion provided by 
the Medical Practitioner 

--- PAGE 11 ---

Optima Restore – Policy Wordings               
 
 
  
 
11 
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited. IRDAI Reg. No.146. CIN: U66030MH2007PLC177117. Registered & Corporate Office: 
1st Floor, HDFC House, 165 -166 Backbay Reclamation, H. T. Parekh Marg, Churchgate, Mumbai – 400 020. Trade Logo displayed above 
belongs to HDFC Ltd and ERGO International AG and used by the  Company under license. Optima Restore: HDFHLIP22193V072122        
the Insured Person by the Medical 
Practitioner. 
 
 “Critical Illness” includes Cancer, 
Open Chest CABG, First Heart 
Attack, Kidney Failure, Major 
Organ/Bone Marrow Transplant, 
Multiple Sclerosis, Permanent 
Paralysis of Limbs and Stroke. 
 
 j.  Emergency Air Ambulance Cover 
We will pay for ambulance 
transportation in an airplane or 
helicopter subject to maximum 
limit prescribed in j (1) , for 
emergency life threatening health 
conditions which require 
immediate and rapid ambulance 
transportation to the  
hospital/medical centre that 
ground transportation cannot 
provide subject to: 
 Necessary medical treatment 
not being available at the 
location where the Insured 
Person is situated at the time 
of Emergency;  
 The Medical Evacuation been 
prescribed by a Medical 
Practitioner and is Medically 
Necessary;  
 The insured person is in India 
and the treatment is required 
in India only and not overseas 
in any condition whatsoever; 
and 
 The air ambulance provider 
being registered in India. 
  
J(i) The amount payable in case of Air 
ambulance facility shall be either the 
actual expenses or Rs. 2.5 Lacs per 
hospitalisation, whichever is lower; 
upto basic sum insured limit for a year. 
1. Claims which have NOT been 
admitted under 1 a)  and 1d). 
2. Expenses incurred in return 
transportation to the insured’s home 
by air ambulance is excluded. 
 
2.  
 a. Restore Benefit 
Instant addition of 100% Basic Sum 
Insured on complete or partial 
utilization of Your existing Policy  Sum 
. 

--- PAGE 12 ---

Optima Restore – Policy Wordings               
 
 
  
 
12 
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited. IRDAI Reg. No.146. CIN: U66030MH2007PLC177117. Registered & Corporate Office: 
1st Floor, HDFC House, 165 -166 Backbay Reclamation, H. T. Parekh Marg, Churchgate, Mumbai – 400 020. Trade Logo displayed above 
belongs to HDFC Ltd and ERGO International AG and used by the  Company under license. Optima Restore: HDFHLIP22193V072122        
Insured and Multiplier Benefit (if 
applicable) during the Policy Year.  The 
Total amount (Basic sum insured, 
Multiplier benefit and Restore sum 
insured) will be available to all Insured 
Persons for all claims under In-patient 
Benefit during the current Policy Year 
 and subject to the condition that 
single claim  in a Policy Year cannot 
exceed the sum of Basic Sum Insured 
and the Multiplier Benefit (if 
applicable). 
 
Conditions for Restore benefit: 
i. The Sum Insured will be 
restored only once in a Policy 
Year. 
ii. If the Restored Sum Insured is 
not utilized in a Policy Year, it 
will expire.  
In case of a Family Floater Policy, 
Restore Sum Insured will be available 
on floater basis for all Insured Persons 
in the Policy. 
 
b. Unlimited Restore Benefit 
(Optional benefit) 
This optional cover will be provide 
instant addition of 100% Basic Sum 
Insured on complete or partial 
utilization of Your Restore benefit or 
Unlimited Restore benefit (as 
applicable) during the Policy Year.  This 
optional cover will trigger unlimited 
times and is available for all 
subsequent claims in a Policy Year.  
 
Conditions for Unlimited Restore 
benefit: 
i. The Sum Insured will be restored 
under this optional cover for the 
subsequent claim in the Policy 
Year. 
ii. A single claim in a Policy Year 
cannot exceed the sum of Basic 
Sum Insured and the Multiplier 
Benefit (if applicable). 
 
In case of a Family Floater Policy, 
Unlimited Restore Sum Insured will be 

--- PAGE 13 ---

Optima Restore – Policy Wordings               
 
 
  
 
13 
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited. IRDAI Reg. No.146. CIN: U66030MH2007PLC177117. Registered & Corporate Office: 
1st Floor, HDFC House, 165 -166 Backbay Reclamation, H. T. Parekh Marg, Churchgate, Mumbai – 400 020. Trade Logo displayed above 
belongs to HDFC Ltd and ERGO International AG and used by the  Company under license. Optima Restore: HDFHLIP22193V072122        
available on floater basis for all Insured 
Persons in the Policy. 
 
 
Illustration of Sum Insured utilization in a Policy Year 
Basic Sum Insured : 5 Lacs 
Multiplier Benefit: 2.5 Lacs 
 
Number 
of Claim 
Claim 
amount 
Available Benefit Limit 
Admissible 
claim amount 
Utilization of Sum 
Insured Basic Sum 
Insured 
Multiplier 
Benefit 
Restore 
Benefit 
Unlimited 
Restore 
Benefit 
1st claim 7,00,000 5,00,000 2,50,000 0 0 7,00,000 Basic + Multiplier 
(Partial) 
2nd claim 3,50,000 - 50,000 5,00,000 0 3,50,000 Multiplier (balance) + 
Restore (partial) 
3rd claim 3,00,000 - - 2,00,000 5,00,000 3,00,000 Restore (balance) + 
Unlimited Restore  
4th claim 7,00,000 - - - 5,00,000 5,00,000 Unlimited Restore 
5th claim 5,00,000 - - - 5,00,000 5,00,000 Unlimited Restore 
 
3. Preventive Health Check-up 
This benefit is effective only if mentioned in the schedule of benefits. 
a) If You have maintained an Optima Restore Policy with Us for the period of time mentioned in the 
schedule of benefits without any break, then at the end of  each block of continuous years (as 
mentioned in the schedule of benefits) We will pay upto the amount mentioned in the Schedul e 
of Benefits  towards the cost of a preventive health check -up for those Insured Persons who 
were insured for the number of previous Policy Years mentioned in the Schedule. 
 
Note: If member has changed the plan in subsequent year and in the new plan the waiting period is less 
than previous plan then waiting period mentioned in the current plan would be applicable.  
 
IMPORTANT: This benefit does NOT carry forward if it is not claimed and would not be provided if Optima 
Restore Policy is not renewed further. 
 
Preventive Health Check -up mean s a package of medical test(s) undertaken for general assessment of 
health status, it does not include any diagnostic or investigative medical tests for evaluation of illness or a 
disease.  
 
Plan 3 Lacs 5 Lacs 10 Lacs 15 Lacs 20,25,50, 100 Lacs 
Optima 
Restore  
Individual 
Not 
Applicable 
Upto a maximum of 
Rs.1,500 per insured 
person, only once at 
the end of a block of 
every continuous 
two Policy Years. 
Upto a maximum 
of Rs.2,000 per 
insured person at 
the end of each 
year at renewal. 
Upto a maximum 
of Rs.4,000 per 
insured person,  at 
the end of each 
year at renewal 
Upto Maximum of Rs. 
5,000 per Insured Person, 
at the end of  each year 
at renewal 
 
Optima 
Restore  
Family 
Not 
Applicable 
Upto a maximum of 
Rs.2,500 per policy, 
only once at the end 
of a block of every 
Upto a maximum 
of Rs.5,000 per 
policy at the end of 
each year at 
Upto a maximum 
of Rs.8,000 per 
policy,  at the end 
of each year at 
Upto Maximum of Rs. 
10,000 per policy, at the 
end of each year at 
renewal. 

--- PAGE 14 ---

Optima Restore – Policy Wordings               
 
 
  
 
14 
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited. IRDAI Reg. No.146. CIN: U66030MH2007PLC177117. Registered & Corporate Office: 
1st Floor, HDFC House, 165 -166 Backbay Reclamation, H. T. Parekh Marg, Churchgate, Mumbai – 400 020. Trade Logo displayed above 
belongs to HDFC Ltd and ERGO International AG and used by the  Company under license. Optima Restore: HDFHLIP22193V072122        
continuous two 
Policy Years. 
renewal renewal.  
 
 
4. Multiplier Benefit 
a) If NO claims have been made in respect of  any benefit listed under Section 1 in a Policy  Year and 
the Policy is renewed with Us without any break 
i) We will apply a bonus by enhancing the renewed policy’s Sum Insured by 50% of the Basic 
Sum Insured of the previous year’s Policy. 
ii) The maximum bonus will not exceed 100% of the Basic Sum Insured in any Policy Year.  
 
In Family Floater policy,  
 
1. The Multiplier Benefit shall be available on Family Floater basis and accrue only if no 
claims have been made in respect of any Insured Person during the previous Policy Year.  
 
2. Accrued Multiplier Benefit is available to all Insured Persons under the Policy.  
 
b) If a Multiplier Benefit has been applied and a c laim is made in any Policy Year , then in the 
subsequent Policy Year We will aut omatically decrease the accrued  Multiplier B enefit at the 
same rate at which it is accrued . However this reduction will not reduce the Sum Insured below 
the Basic Sum Insured of the policy, and only the accrued multiplier bonus will be decreased. 
 
c) If the Insured Persons in the expiring policy are covered on individual basis and thus have 
accrued the multiplier bonus for each member in the expiring policy, and such expiring policy is 
renewed with Us on a Family Floate r basis, then the multiplier bonus to be carried forward for 
credit in the Policy would be the lowest accrued multiplier bonus amongst all the Insured Persons 
from the expiring Policy.   
 
d) Portability/migration benefit will be offered to the extent of sum o f previous sum insured and 
accrued multiplier bonus, portability/migration benefit shall not apply to any other additional 
increased Sum Insured. 
 
e) In policies with a 2/3 year Policy Period, the application of above guidelines of Multiplier Benefit 
shall be post completion of each policy year. 
 
Section C) Special terms and conditions 
 
1. Standard Waiting Periods 
All Illnesses and treatments shall be covered subject to the waiting periods specified below: 
 
i. 30-day waiting period – Code – Excl03 
a) Expenses related to the treatment of any illness within 30 days from the first policy 
commencement date shall be excluded except claims arising due to an accident, provided 
the same are covered. 
b) This exclusion shall not, however, apply if the insured person has continuous c overage for 
more than twelve months. 
c) The within referred waiting period is made applicable to the enhanced sum insured in the 
event of granting higher sum insured subsequently.   
 
ii. Specified disease/procedure waiting period – Code – Excl02 

--- PAGE 15 ---

Optima Restore – Policy Wordings               
 
 
  
 
15 
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited. IRDAI Reg. No.146. CIN: U66030MH2007PLC177117. Registered & Corporate Office: 
1st Floor, HDFC House, 165 -166 Backbay Reclamation, H. T. Parekh Marg, Churchgate, Mumbai – 400 020. Trade Logo displayed above 
belongs to HDFC Ltd and ERGO International AG and used by the  Company under license. Optima Restore: HDFHLIP22193V072122        
a) Expenses related to the treatment of the listed Conditions, surgeries/treatments shall be 
excluded until the expiry of 24 months of continuous coverage after the date of inception of 
the first p olicy with us. This exclusion shall not be applicable for claims arising due to an 
accident or underlying cause is cancer(s).  
b) In case of enhancement of sum insured the exclusion shall apply afresh to the extent of sum 
insured increase.  
c) If any of the specified disease/procedure falls under the wa iting period specified for pre -
existing diseases, then the longer of the two waiting periods shall apply.  
d) The waiting period for listed conditions shall apply even if contracted after the policy or 
declared and accepted without a specific exclusion. 
e) If the Insured Person is continuously covered without any break as defined under the 
applicable norms on portability/migration stipulated by IRDAI, then waiting period for the 
same would be reduced to the extent of prior coverage. 
f) List of specific diseases/procedures: - 
 
Organ / Organ System Illness / diagnoses  (irrespective of 
treatments medical or surgical) 
Surgeries / procedure (irrespective 
of any illness / diagnosis other 
than cancers) 
Ear, Nose & Throat 
(ENT) 
 Sinusitis 
 Rhinitis 
 Tonsillitis 
 
 Adenoidectomy 
 Mastoidectomy 
 Tonsillectomy 
 Tympanoplasty 
 Surgery for Nasal septum 
deviation 
 Surgery for Turbinate 
hypertrophy  
 Nasal concha resection 
 Nasal polypectomy 
Gynaecological  Cysts, polyps including breast 
lumps  
 Polycystic ovarian diseases 
 Fibromyoma 
 Adenomyosis 
 Endometriosis  
 Prolapsed Uterus 
 Hysterectomy 
 
Orthopaedic  Non infective arthritis 
 Gout and Rheumatism 
 Osteoporosis  
 Ligament, Tendon and 
Meniscal tear 
 Prolapsed inter vertebral disk 
 Joint replacement surgeries 
 
Gastrointestinal  Cholelithiasis 
 Cholecystitis 
 Pancreatitis 
 Fissure/fistula in anus, 
Haemorrhoids, Pilonidal sinus 
 Gastro Esophageal Reflux 
Disorder (GERD), Ulcer and 
erosion of stomach and 
duodenum 
 Cholecystectomy 
 Surgery of hernia 

--- PAGE 16 ---

Optima Restore – Policy Wordings               
 
 
  
 
16 
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited. IRDAI Reg. No.146. CIN: U66030MH2007PLC177117. Registered & Corporate Office: 
1st Floor, HDFC House, 165 -166 Backbay Reclamation, H. T. Parekh Marg, Churchgate, Mumbai – 400 020. Trade Logo displayed above 
belongs to HDFC Ltd and ERGO International AG and used by the  Company under license. Optima Restore: HDFHLIP22193V072122        
 Cirrhosis (However Alcoholic 
cirrhosis is permanently 
excluded) 
 Perineal and Perianal Abscess 
  Rectal Prolapse 
Urogenital  Calculus diseases of Urogenital 
system including Kidney, 
ureter, bladder stones 
 Benign Hyperplasia of prostate 
 Varicocele 
 Surgery on prostate 
 Surgery for Hydrocele/ 
Rectocele 
 Eye  Cataract  
 Retinal detachment 
 Glaucoma 
 Nil 
 
Others  NIL  Surgery of varicose veins and 
varicose ulcers 
General  
(Applicable to all organ 
systems/organs  
whether or not 
described above) 
 Benign tumors of Non 
infectious etiologye.eg. cysts,  
nodules, polyps, lump, growth, 
etc 
 Nil 
 
 
iii. Pre-Existing Diseases – Code – Excl01 
a) Expenses related to the treatment of a pre-existing disease (PED) and its direct complications 
shall be excluded until the expiry of 36 months of continuous coverage after the date of 
inception of the first policy with insurer.  
b) In case of enhancement of sum insured the exclusion shall apply afresh to the ex tent of sum 
insured increase. 
c) If the insured p erson is continuously covered without any break as defined under the 
portability/migration norms of the extant IRDAI (Health Insurance) Regulations, then waiting 
period for the same would be reduced to the extent of prior coverage. 
d) Coverage under the policy after the expiry of 36 months for any pre -existing disease is 
subject to the same being declared at the time of application and accepted by insurer. 
 
2. Standard General exclusions 
 
We will not pay for any claim which is caused by, arising from or attributable to: 
Non Medical 
Exclusions 
 
1. Breach of law: Code – Excl10 
Expenses for treatment directly arising from or consequent upon any Insured 
Person committing or attempting to commit a breach of law with criminal intent.  
2. Hazardous or Adventure sports: Code – Excl09  
Expenses related to any treatment necessitated due to participation as a 
professional in Hazardous or Adventure Sports, including but not limited to, 
para-jumping, rock climbing, mountaineering, rafting, motor racing, horse racing 
or scuba diving, hand gliding, sky diving, deep-sea diving.  
Medical 
Exclusions 
3. Treatment for Alcoholism, drug or substance abuse or any addictive condition and 
consequences thereof – Code – Excl12 
4. Obesity/ Weight Control: Code – Excl06 
Expenses related to the surgical treatment of obesity that does not fulfil all the 
below conditions: 

--- PAGE 17 ---

Optima Restore – Policy Wordings               
 
 
  
 
17 
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited. IRDAI Reg. No.146. CIN: U66030MH2007PLC177117. Registered & Corporate Office: 
1st Floor, HDFC House, 165 -166 Backbay Reclamation, H. T. Parekh Marg, Churchgate, Mumbai – 400 020. Trade Logo displayed above 
belongs to HDFC Ltd and ERGO International AG and used by the  Company under license. Optima Restore: HDFHLIP22193V072122        
i. Surgery to be conducted is upon the advice of the 
Doctor 
ii. The surgery/Procedure conducted should be 
supported by clinical protocols 
iii. The member has to be 18 years of age or older and 
iv. Body Mass Index (BMI);  
a) greater than or equal to 40 or 
b) greater than or equal to 35 in conjunction with any of the following 
severe co -morbidities following failure of less invasive methods of 
weight loss: 
i. Obesity-related cardiomyopathy 
ii. Coronary heart disease  
iii. Severe Sleep Apnoea 
iv. Uncontrolled Type2 Diabetes 
5. Expenses related to the treatment for correction of eye sight due to refractive 
error less than 7.5 dioptres. Code –Excl15 
6. Cosmetic or plastic Surgery: Code – Excl08 
Expenses for cosmetic or plastic surgery or any treatment to change appearance 
unless for reconstru ction following an Accident, Burn(s) or Cancer or as part of 
medically necessary treatment to remove a direct and immediate health risk to 
the insured. For this to be considered a medical necessity, it must be certified by 
the attending Medical Practitioner. 
7. Change-of-Gender treatments: Code – Excl07 
Expenses related to any treatment, including surgical management, to change 
characteristics of the body to those of the opposite sex. 
8. Unproven Treatments: 
Expenses related to any unproven treatment, services an d supplies for or in 
connection with any treatment. Unproven treatments are treatments, 
procedures or supplies that lack significant medical documentation to support 
their effectiveness. Code – Excl16 
9. Investigation & Evaluation: Code – Excl04 
a) Expenses related to any admission primarily for diagnostics and evaluation 
purposes only are excluded. 
b) Any diagnostic expenses which are not related or not incidental to the 
current diagnosis and treatment are excluded. 
10. Rest Cure, rehabilitation and respite care: Code – Excl05 
a) Expenses related to any admission primarily for enforced bed rest and not 
for receiving treatment. This also includes: 
i. Custodial care either at home or in a nursing facility for personal care 
such as help with activities of daily living such as bathing, dressing, 
moving around either by skilled nurses or assistant or non -skilled 
persons.  
ii. Any services for people who are terminally ill to address physical, social, 
emotional and spiritual needs. 
11. Treatments received in heath hydros, nature cure clinics, spas or similar 
establishments or private beds registered as a nursing home attached to such 
establishments or where admissio n is arranged wholly or partly for domestic 
reasons. Code – Excl13 
12. Dietary supplements and substances that can be purchased without 
prescription, including but not limited to Vitamins, minerals and organic 
substances unless prescribed by a medical practiti oner as part of hospitalization 

--- PAGE 18 ---

Optima Restore – Policy Wordings               
 
 
  
 
18 
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited. IRDAI Reg. No.146. CIN: U66030MH2007PLC177117. Registered & Corporate Office: 
1st Floor, HDFC House, 165 -166 Backbay Reclamation, H. T. Parekh Marg, Churchgate, Mumbai – 400 020. Trade Logo displayed above 
belongs to HDFC Ltd and ERGO International AG and used by the  Company under license. Optima Restore: HDFHLIP22193V072122        
claim or day care procedure. Code – Excl14 
 
13. Maternity: Code – Excl18 
i. Medical treatment expenses traceable to childbirth (including 
complicated deliveries and caesarean sections incurred during 
hospitalization) except ectopic pregnancy;  
ii. Expenses towards miscarriage (unless due to an accident) and 
lawful medical termination of pregnancy during the policy period. 
14. Sterility and Infertility: Code – Excl17 
Expenses related to sterility and infertility. This includes: 
i.Any type of contraception, sterilization 
ii.Assisted Reproduction services including artificial insemination and 
advanced reproductive technologies such as IVF, ZIFT, GIFT, ICSI  
iii.Gestational Surrogacy 
iv.Reversal of sterilization 
15. Excluded Providers: Code – Excl11 
Expenses in curred towards treatment in any hospital or by any Medical 
Practitioner or any other provider specifically excluded by the Insurer and 
disclosed in its website / notified to the policyholders are not admissible.  
However, in case of life threatening situat ions or following an accident, 
expenses up to the stage of stabilization are payable but not the complete claim.  
 
 
3. Specific General exclusions 
 
Non Medical 
Exclusions 
 
1. War or similar situations- 
     Treatment arising from or consequent upon war or any act of war, invasion, act of 
foreign enemy, (whether war be declared or not or caused during service in the 
armed forces of any country), civil war, public defence, rebellion, revolution, 
insurrection, military or usurped acts, nuc lear weapons/materials, chemical and 
biological weapons, radiation of any kind. 
2. Intentional self-injury or attempted suicide. 
3. Any Insured Person’s participation or involvement in naval, military or air force 
operation. 
Medical 
Exclusions 
4. Prosthetic and other devices which are self-detachable /removable without 
surgery involving anaesthesia  
5. Treatment availed outside India 
6. Treatment at a healthcare facility which is NOT a Hospital. 
7. Circumcisions (unless nece ssitated by Illness or injury and forming part of 
treatment) 
8. Non allopathic treatment. 
9. Conditions for which  treatment could have been done on an outpatient basis 
without any Hospitalisation. 
10. Preventive care, vaccination including inoculation and immunisations (except in 
case of post-bite treatment);  
11. Provision or fitting of hearing aids, spectacles or contact lenses including 
optometric therapy, any treatment and associated expenses for alopecia, 
baldness, wigs, or toupees, medical supplies including elastic stockings, diabetic 
test strips, and similar products. 
12. Sleep-apnoea 
13. External congenital diseases, defects or anomalies 

--- PAGE 19 ---

Optima Restore – Policy Wordings               
 
 
  
 
19 
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited. IRDAI Reg. No.146. CIN: U66030MH2007PLC177117. Registered & Corporate Office: 
1st Floor, HDFC House, 165 -166 Backbay Reclamation, H. T. Parekh Marg, Churchgate, Mumbai – 400 020. Trade Logo displayed above 
belongs to HDFC Ltd and ERGO International AG and used by the  Company under license. Optima Restore: HDFHLIP22193V072122        
14. The expense incurred by the insured on organ donation.   
15. Treatment and supplies for analysis and adjustments of spinal subluxation, 
diagnosis and treatment by manipulation of the skeletal structure; muscle 
stimulation by any means except treatment of fractures (excluding hairline 
fractures) and dislocations of the mandible and extremities. 
16. Any non-medical expenses mentioned in List – I of Annexure I.  
  
17. Treatment rendered by a Medical Practitioner which is outside his discipline or 
the discipline for which he is licensed. 
18. Treatments rendered by a Med ical Practitioner who is a member of the Insured 
Person’s family or stays with him, however proven material costs are eligible for 
reimbursement in accordance with the applicable cover. 
19. Any treatment or part of a treatment tha t is not of a reasonable charg e and not 
Medically Necessary.  
20. Drugs or treatments which are not supported by a prescription. 
21. Any specific time  bound or lifetime exclusion(s) applied by Us and specified in 
the Schedule and accepted by the insured. 
22. Admission for administration of Intra-articular or Intra -lesional injections,  
Supplementary medications like Zolendronic acid (Trade name Zometa, Reclast, 
etc) or IV immunoglobulin infusion 
 
 
Section D) General Terms and Clauses 
 
1. Standard General Terms & Clauses 
 
a. Condition Precedent to admission of Liability  
 
The terms and conditions of the Policy must be fulfilled by the Insured Person for the Company 
to make any payment for claim(s) arising under the Policy. 
 
b. Claim Settlement (Provision for Penal Interest)   
 
i) The Company shall settle or reject a claim, as the case may be, within 30 days from the 
date of receipt of last necessary document. 
ii) In the case of delay in the payment of a claim, the Company shall be liable to pay interest 
to the Policyholder from the date of receip t of last necessary document to the date of 
payment of claim at a rate 2% above the Bank Rate. 
iii) However, where the circumstances of a claim warrant an investigation in the opinion of the 
Company, it shall initiate and complete such investigation at the earl iest, in any case not 
later than 30 days from the date of receipt of last necessary document . In such cases, the 
Company shall settle or reject the claim within 45 days from the date of receipt of last 
necessary document. 
iv) In case of delay beyond stipulated  45 days, the Company shall be liable to pay interest to 
the Policyholder at a rate 2% above the Bank Rate  from the date of receipt of last 
necessary document to the date of payment of claim. 
v) We shall be under no obligation to make any payment under  this P olicy unless We have 
received all premium payments in full in time and all payments have been realised and We 
have been provided with the documentation and information We have requested to 
establish the circumstances of the claim, its quantum or Our liabil ity for it, and unless the 
Insured Person has complied with his obligations under this Policy. 

--- PAGE 20 ---

Optima Restore – Policy Wordings               
 
 
  
 
20 
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited. IRDAI Reg. No.146. CIN: U66030MH2007PLC177117. Registered & Corporate Office: 
1st Floor, HDFC House, 165 -166 Backbay Reclamation, H. T. Parekh Marg, Churchgate, Mumbai – 400 020. Trade Logo displayed above 
belongs to HDFC Ltd and ERGO International AG and used by the  Company under license. Optima Restore: HDFHLIP22193V072122        
vi) We will only make payment to You under this Policy. Receipt of payment by You shall be 
considered as a complete discharge of Our liability against the respective  claim under this 
Policy. In the event of Your death, We will make payment to the Nominee (as named in the 
Schedule), payments under this Policy shall only be made in Indian Rupees within India.  
vii) The assignment of benefits of the policy shall be subject to applicable law. 
viii) We are not obliged to make payment for any claim or that part of any claim that could have 
been avoided or reduced if the Insured Person had taken reasonable care, or that is brought 
about or contributed to by the Insured Person failing to follow the directions, advice or 
guidance provided by a Medical Practitioner. 
ix) Cashless service: If any treatment, consultation or procedure for which a claim may be made 
is to be taken at a Network Hospital, then We will provide a cashless service by makin g 
payment to the extent of Our liability direct to the Network Hospital as long as We are given 
notice that the Insured Person wishes to take advantage of a cashless service accompanied 
by full particulars at least 48 hours before any planned treatment or Hospitalisation or 
within 24 hours after Hospitalisation in the case of an emergency. 
x) In an event claim event falls within two Policy Period then We shall settle claim by taking 
into consideration the available in the two Policy Periods. Such eligible clai m amount to be 
payable to the Insured shall be reduced to the extent of premium to be received for the 
renewal /due date of the premium of health insurance policy, if not received earlier.  
xi) Healthcare Advisory Benefit: We may suggest alternate Network Prov ider in specific cases of 
surgical or medical treatment, should the Insured member accept and utilize one of the 
alternatives suggested he would be eligible for a lump sum benefit of Rs 5000.  
Please note : The acceptance of our recommendation is not obligat ory on the Insured 
member and We are not liable for any outcome of the treatment conducted at the 
network centre. 
 
c. Fraud 
 
If any claim made by the Insured Person, is in any respect fraudulent, or if any false statement, 
or declaration is made or used in support thereof, or if any fraudulent means or devices are used 
by the Insured Person or anyone acting on his/her behalf to obtain any benefit under this Policy, 
all benefits under this policy and the premium paid shall be forfeited.  
 
Any amount already paid against claims made under this Policy but which are found fraudulent 
later shall be repaid by all recipient(s)/policyholder(s), who have made that particular cl aim, who 
shall be jointly and severally liable for such repayment to the Insurer. 
 
For the purpose of this clause, the expression "fraud" means any of the following acts committed 
by the Insured Person or by his agent or the hospital/doctor/any other party  acting on behalf of 
the Insured Person, with intent to deceive the insurer or to induce the insurer to issue an 
insurance policy: 
a) the suggestion, as a fact of that which is not true and which the Insured Person does 
not believe to be true; 
b) the active concealment of a fact by the Insured Person having knowledge or belief of 
the fact; 
c) any other act fitted to deceive; and 

--- PAGE 21 ---

Optima Restore – Policy Wordings               
 
 
  
 
21 
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited. IRDAI Reg. No.146. CIN: U66030MH2007PLC177117. Registered & Corporate Office: 
1st Floor, HDFC House, 165 -166 Backbay Reclamation, H. T. Parekh Marg, Churchgate, Mumbai – 400 020. Trade Logo displayed above 
belongs to HDFC Ltd and ERGO International AG and used by the  Company under license. Optima Restore: HDFHLIP22193V072122        
d) any such act or omission as the law specially declares to be fraudulent 
 
The Company shall not repudiate the claim and / or forfeit the Policy benefits on the ground of 
Fraud, if the Insured Person / beneficiary can prove that the misstatement was true to the best 
of his knowledge and there was no deliberate intention to suppress the fact or that such 
misstatement of or suppression of material fact are within the knowledge of the Insurer.  
 
d. Multiple Policies  
 
i. In case of multiple policies taken by an Insured Person  during a period from one or more 
insurers to indemnify treatment costs, the Insured Person  shall have the right to require a 
settlement of his/her claim in terms of any of his/her policies. In all such cases the Insurer 
chosen by the Insured Person shall be obliged to settle the claim as long as the claim is within 
the limits of and according to the terms of the chosen Policy. 
ii. Insured Person  having multiple policies shall also have the right to prefer claims under this 
Policy for the amounts disallowed under any other policy / policies even if the Sum Insured is 
not exhausted. Then the insurer shall independent ly settle the claim subject to the terms and 
conditions of thisPolicy. 
iii. If the amount to be claimed exceeds the Sum Insured under a single Policy, the Insured Person 
shall have the right to choose Insurer from whom he/she wants to claim the balance amount. 
iv. Where an Insured Person  has policies from more than one Insurer to cover the same risk on 
indemnity basis, the Insured Person  shall only be indemnified the treatment costs in 
accordance with the terms and conditions of the chosen Policy.  
 
e. Renewal of Policy 
 
The policy shall ordinarily be renewable except on grounds of fraud, misrepresentation by the 
insured person. 
 
i. The Company shall endeavour to give notice for Renewal. However, the Company is not 
under obligation to give any notice for Renewal. 
ii. Renewal shall not be denied on the ground that the Insured Person  had made a claim or 
claims in the preceding policy years. 
iii. Request for Renewal along with requisite premium shall be received by the Company before 
the end of the policy period. 
iv. At the end of the po licy period, the Policy shall terminate and can be renewed within the 
Grace Period  to maintain continuity of benefits without Break in Policy . Coverage is not 
available during the Grace Period. 
v. No loading shall apply on renewals based on individual claims experience. 
 
f. Dispute Resolution Clause 
Any and all disputes or differences under or in relation to this Policy shall be determined by the 
Indian Courts and subject to Indian law. 
 
g. Cancellation 
 
 The Policyholder may cancel this policy by giving 15days’ written notice and in such an event, 
the Company shall refund premium for the unexpired policy period as detailed below.  
 
Month 1 Year 2 Year 3 Year 

--- PAGE 22 ---

Optima Restore – Policy Wordings               
 
 
  
 
22 
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited. IRDAI Reg. No.146. CIN: U66030MH2007PLC177117. Registered & Corporate Office: 
1st Floor, HDFC House, 165 -166 Backbay Reclamation, H. T. Parekh Marg, Churchgate, Mumbai – 400 020. Trade Logo displayed above 
belongs to HDFC Ltd and ERGO International AG and used by the  Company under license. Optima Restore: HDFHLIP22193V072122        
Month 1 Year 2 Year 3 Year 
Up to 1 month 85.0% 92.5% 95.0% 
Up to 3 month 70.0% 85.0% 90.0% 
Up to 6 month 45.0% 70.0% 80.0% 
Up to 12 month 0.0% 45.0% 65.0% 
Up to 15 month Not Applicable 30.0% 55.0% 
Up to 18 month Not Applicable 20.0% 45.0% 
Up to 24 month Not Applicable 0.0% 30.0% 
Up to 27 month Not Applicable Not Applicable 20.0% 
Up to 30 month Not Applicable Not Applicable 15.0% 
Up to 36 month Not Applicable Not Applicable 0.0% 
 
For Policies where premium is paid by instalment, the following additional conditions will be 
applicable: 
i. Where yearly payment option is in force under the Policy, cancellation grid as per 1 -Year 
Tenure policies will be applicable. 
ii. For all other payment options, 50% of current instalment premium will be refunded when the 
current period elapsed is less than 6 m onths from the commencement of the Policy Year. For 
instalment after 6 months, no refund will be payable. 
iii. In case of admissible claim under the Policy, future instalment for the current Policy Year will 
be adjusted in the claim amount and no refund of any premium will be applicable during the 
Policy Year. 
 
 Notwithstanding anything contained herein or otherwise, no refunds of premium shall be 
made in respect of Cancellation where, any claim has been admitted or has been lodged or 
any benefit has been availed by the Insured Person under the Policy. 
 
 The Company may cancel the policy at any time on grounds of misrepresentation non -
disclosure of material facts, fraud by the insured person by giving 15 days’ written notice . 
There would be no refund of premium on cancellation on grounds of misrepresentation, non -
disclosure of material facts or fraud. 
 
h. Free Look Period 
 
The Free Look Period shall be applicable on new individual health insurance policies and not on 
renewals or at the time of porting/migrating the Policy. 
 
The Insured Person  shall be allowed free look period of fifteen days from date of receipt of the 
policy document to review the terms and conditions of the policy, and to return the same if not 
acceptable. 
 
If the Insured has not made any claim during the Free Look Period, the insured shall be entitled to 
 
i. a refund of the premium paid less any expenses incurred by the Company on medical 
examination of the Insured Person and the stamp duty charges or 
ii. where the risk has already commenced and the optio n of return of the Policy is exercised by 
the Insured Person, a deduction towards the proportionate risk premium for period of cover 
or 

--- PAGE 23 ---

Optima Restore – Policy Wordings               
 
 
  
 
23 
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited. IRDAI Reg. No.146. CIN: U66030MH2007PLC177117. Registered & Corporate Office: 
1st Floor, HDFC House, 165 -166 Backbay Reclamation, H. T. Parekh Marg, Churchgate, Mumbai – 400 020. Trade Logo displayed above 
belongs to HDFC Ltd and ERGO International AG and used by the  Company under license. Optima Restore: HDFHLIP22193V072122        
iii. Where only a part of the insurance coverage has commenced, such proportionate premium 
commensurate with the insurance coverage during such period. 
  
i. Disclosure of Information 
 
The policy shall be void and all premium paid thereon shall be forfeited to the Company in the 
event of misrepresentation, mis description or non -disclosure of any material fact by the 
policyholder. 
 
j. Complete Discharge 
 
Any payment to the Policyholder, Insured Person  or his/ her nominees or his/ her legal 
representative or assignee or to the Hospital, as the case may be, for any benefit under the 
Policy shall be a valid discharge towards payment of claim by the Company to the extent of that 
amount for the particular claim. 
 
k. Moratorium Period 
 
After completion of eight continuous years under the policy, no look back to be applied. This 
period of eight years is called as Moratorium Period. The moratorium would be applicable for the 
sums insured of the first policy and subsequently completion of 8 continuous years would be 
applicable from date of enhancement of sums insured only on the enhanced limits. After  the 
expiry of Moratorium Period no health insurance claim shall be contestable except for proven 
fraud and permanent exclusions specified in the policy contract. The policies would however be 
subject to all limits, sub limits, co-payments, deductibles as per the policy contract 
 
l. Portability  
 
The Insured Person will have the option to port the Policy to other insurers by  applying to such 
Insurer to port the entire policy along with all the members of the family, if any, at least 45 days 
before, but not earlier than 60 days from the policy renewal date as per IRDAI guidelines related 
to Portability. If such person is presently covered and has been  continuously covered without 
any lapses under any health insurance policy with an Indian General/Health insurer, the 
proposed Insured Person will get the accrued continuity benefits in waiting periods as per IRDAI 
guidelines on portability. 
 
For Detailed Guidelines on Portability, kindly refer the link  
https://www.irdai.gov.in/ADMINCMS/cms/frmGuidelines_Layout.aspx?page=PageNo3987  
 
m. Migration  
 
 The Insured Person  will have the option to migrate the Policy to other health insurance 
products/plans offered by the Company by applying for Migration of the policyatleast30 days 
before the policy renewal dat e as per IRDAI guidelines on Migration. If such person is presently 
covered and has been continuously covered without any lapses under any health insurance 
product/plan offered by the Company, the Insured Person will get the accrued continuity benefits 
in waiting periods as per IRDAI guidelines on Migration. 
 
 For Detailed Guidelines on Migration, kindly refer the link 
 
https://www.irdai.gov.in/ADMINCMS/cms/frmGuidelines_Layout.aspx?page=PageNo3987  

--- PAGE 24 ---

Optima Restore – Policy Wordings               
 
 
  
 
24 
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited. IRDAI Reg. No.146. CIN: U66030MH2007PLC177117. Registered & Corporate Office: 
1st Floor, HDFC House, 165 -166 Backbay Reclamation, H. T. Parekh Marg, Churchgate, Mumbai – 400 020. Trade Logo displayed above 
belongs to HDFC Ltd and ERGO International AG and used by the  Company under license. Optima Restore: HDFHLIP22193V072122        
 
n. Possibility of Revision of terms of the Policy including the Premium Rates  
 
The Company, with prior approval of IRDAI, may revise or modify the terms of the Policy including 
the premium rates. The Insured Person  shall be notified three months before the ch anges are 
effected. 
 
o. Withdrawal of Policy  
 
a) In the likelihood of this product being withdrawn in future, the Company will intimate 
the Insured Person about the same 90 days prior to expiry of the policy.  
 
b) Insured Person will have the option to migrate to similar health insurance product 
available with the Company at the time of renewal with all the accrued continuity benefits such 
as Cumulative Bonus, waiver of waiting period as per IRDAI guidelines, provided the policy has 
been maintained without a break. 
 
p. Nomination: 
 
The Policyholder is required at the inception of the Policy to make a nomination for the purpose 
of payment of claims under the Policy in the event of death of the Policyholder. Any change of 
nomination shall be communicated to the Company in writing and such change shall be effective 
only when an endorsement on the Policy is made. In the event of death of the Policyholder, the 
Company will pay the nominee {as named in the Polic y Schedule/Policy Certificate/Endorsement 
(if any)} and in case there is no subsisting nominee, to the legal heirs or legal representatives of 
the Policyholder whose discharge shall be treated as full and final discharge of its liability under 
the Policy. 
 
q. Premium Payment in Instalments 
 
If the Insured Person  has opted for payment of Premium on an installment basis i.e. Half Yearly, 
Quarterly or Monthly, as mentioned in the Policy Schedule , the following Conditions shall apply 
(notwithstanding any terms contrary elsewhere in the Policy): 
 
i. Grace Period as mentioned in the table below would be given to pay the installment premium due for 
the Policy 
 
Options Instalment Premium Option Grace Period applicable 
Option 1 Multi-Year / Yearly 30 days 
Option 2 Half Yearly 30 days 
Option 3 Quarterly 30 days 
Option 4 Monthly 15 Days 
 
ii. During such Grace Period, coverage will not be available from the due date of installment premium 
till the date of receipt of premium by Company 
iii. The Insured Person  will get the accrued continuity benefit in respect of the “Waiting Periods”, 
“Specific Waiting Periods” in the event of payment of premium within the stipulated Grace Period 
iv. No interest will be charged If the installment premium is not paid on due date  

--- PAGE 25 ---

Optima Restore – Policy Wordings               
 
 
  
 
25 
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited. IRDAI Reg. No.146. CIN: U66030MH2007PLC177117. Registered & Corporate Office: 
1st Floor, HDFC House, 165 -166 Backbay Reclamation, H. T. Parekh Marg, Churchgate, Mumbai – 400 020. Trade Logo displayed above 
belongs to HDFC Ltd and ERGO International AG and used by the  Company under license. Optima Restore: HDFHLIP22193V072122        
v. In case of installment premium due not received within the Grace Period, the Policy will get cancelled 
vi. In the event of a claim, all subsequent premium installments shall immediately become due and 
payable 
vii. The Company has the right to recover and deduct all the pending installments from the claim 
amount due under the Policy. 
 
Instalment premium payment through Auto Debit/ECS Facility 
 
i. If Option of Premium payment by instalment is opted through auto Debit/ECS facility, Electronic 
Clearing Service (ECS) Mandate form needs to be completely filled & signed by the Insured Person. 
ii. The Premium amount which would be auto debited & frequency of instalment should be duly filled in 
the ECS Mandate form. 
iii. New ECS Mandate Form is required to be filled in case of any change in the Premium due to change 
of Sum Insured / age / plan /coverages/revision in premium. 
iv. The Company should be informed at least 15 days prior to the due date of instalment premium if the 
Insured Person wishes to discontinue the ECS facility. 
v. Non-payment of premium on due date as opted by the Insured Person in the mandate form subject 
to an additional 15 days of relaxation period will lead to termination of the Policy. 
 
r. Redressal of Grievance 
 
If You have a grievance that You wish Us to redress, You may contact Us with the details of Your 
grievance through: 
  
- Website                  : www.hdfcergo.com 
- E-mail   : care@hdfcergo.com  
- E-mail id for Senior citizens : seniorcitizen@hdfcergo.com             
- Contact Details for senior citizens : 022 6242 6226 
- Customer Care  : 022 6234 6234 / 0120 6234 6234  
- Fax   : +91-124-4584111 
- Courier   : Any of Our Branch office or Corporate office 
 
Insured person may also approach the grievance cell at any of the company’s branches with the 
details of grievance. 
If Insured person is not satisfied with the redressal of grievance through one of the above 
methods, Insured Person may contact the grievance officer at  
 
Customer Happiness Center: D-301, 3rd Floor, Eastern Business District (Magnet Mall), LBS Marg, 
Bhandup (West), Mumbai - 400 078. 
   
For updated details of grievance officer, kindly refer the link:  
https://www.hdfcergo.com/customer-voice/grievances 
 
i. If Insured  person is not satisfied with the redressal of grievance through above methods , the 
insured person may also approach the office of Insurance Ombudsman of the respective 
area/region for redressal of grievance as per Insurance Ombudsman Rules 201 7.  
ii. Grievance may also be lodged at IRDAI Integrated Grievance Management System - 
https://igms.irda.gov.in/ 
 
2. Specific General Terms & Clauses 

--- PAGE 26 ---

Optima Restore – Policy Wordings               
 
 
  
 
26 
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited. IRDAI Reg. No.146. CIN: U66030MH2007PLC177117. Registered & Corporate Office: 
1st Floor, HDFC House, 165 -166 Backbay Reclamation, H. T. Parekh Marg, Churchgate, Mumbai – 400 020. Trade Logo displayed above 
belongs to HDFC Ltd and ERGO International AG and used by the  Company under license. Optima Restore: HDFHLIP22193V072122        
 
a. Geography 
 
This Policy only covers medical treatment taken within India. All payments under this Policy will 
only be made in Indian Rupees within India. For the purpose of policy issuance, the premium will 
be computed basis the city of residence provided by the insured person in the proposal form. The 
premium that would be applicable zone wise and the cities defined in each zone  are as under:  
 
 Tier 1 : Delhi, NCR, Mumbai, Thane, Mumbai Suburban and Navi Mumbai, Surat, Ahmedabad & 
Vadodara 
 Tier 2 : Rest of India- All other cities 
 The premium will be modified in case of mid term address change involving migration from 
one zone to another and would be calculated on pro-rata basis. 
  
b. Insured Person 
 
Only those persons named as Insured Persons in the Schedule shall be covered under this Policy. Any 
eligible person may be added during the Policy Period after his application has been accepted by Us 
and additional premium has been received. Insurance cove r for this person shall only commence 
once We have issued an endorsement confirming the addition of such person as an Insured Person.  
 
Any Insured Person in the policy has the option to migrate to similar indemnity health insurance 
policy available with us at the time of renewal subject to underwriting with all the accrued 
continuity benefits such as cumulative bonus, waiver of waiting period etc. provided the policy 
has been maintained without a break as per portability/migration guidelines.  
 
If an Insured Person dies, he will cease to be an Insured Person upon Us receiving all relevant 
particulars in this regard. We will return a rateable part of the premium received for such person 
IF AND ONLY IF there are no claims in respect of that Insured Person under the Policy.  
 
c. Loadings & Discounts 
 
We may apply a risk loading on the premium payable (based upon the declarations made in the 
proposal form and the health status of the persons proposed for i nsurance). The maximum risk 
loading applicable for an individual shall not exceed above 100% per diagnosis / medical condition 
and an overall risk loading of over 150% per person.   These loadings are applied from 
Commencement Date of the Policy including subsequent renewal(s) with Us or on the receipt of the 
request of increase in Sum Insured (for the increased Sum Insured).  
 
We will inform You about the applicable risk loading or exclusion or both as the case may be through 
a counter offer letter. You need to revert to Us with consent and additional premium (if any), within 
7 days of the receipt of such counter offer letter. In case, you neither accept the counter offer nor 
revert to Us within 7days, We shall cancel Your application and refund the premium paid within next 
7 days. We will issue Policy only after getting Your consent and additional premium (if any). Please 
visit our nearest branch to refer our underwriting guidelines if required. 
 
 Online Discount: The Insured Person is eligible for 5% discount on premium in case he / she purchase the 
Policy online from the Company’s website or the Company’s mobile app. The subsequent Renewal of the 
same Policy will continue to enjoy the 5% discount, provided the Policy remains without the involvement 
of any other insurance agent or insurance intermediary. 
 

--- PAGE 27 ---

Optima Restore – Policy Wordings               
 
 
  
 
27 
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited. IRDAI Reg. No.146. CIN: U66030MH2007PLC177117. Registered & Corporate Office: 
1st Floor, HDFC House, 165 -166 Backbay Reclamation, H. T. Parekh Marg, Churchgate, Mumbai – 400 020. Trade Logo displayed above 
belongs to HDFC Ltd and ERGO International AG and used by the  Company under license. Optima Restore: HDFHLIP22193V072122        
 Employee Discount: A discount of 5 % on the Premium is applicable if any Insured Person is a HDFC Group 
employee (full time employee) / Munich Re Group employee (full time employee) at the time of 
enrolment, or subsequent renewal; provided that such Policy  is purchased through the Company’s 
website or the Company’s mobile app and without the involvement of any insurance agent or insurance 
intermediary.  
 
 Loyalty Discount: If any Insured Person has an active retail insurance Policy with premium above Rs.  
2,000 with the Company, a discount of 2.5% on the Policy premium will be applicable at the time of 
enrolment as well as subsequent renewals.  
 
 Family Discount: The Insured Person will be entitled to receive 10% discount on the premium if two or 
more family members are covered under the same Policy under the individual Policy option. 
The above mentioned discounts are cumulative in nature and the total discount offered under Employee 
discount, Online discount, Loyalty discount and Family discount shall not exceed 20%. 
 Long Term Policy Discount: If the Policy Period is more than one year, the Insured Person will be entitled 
to receive a discount of 7.5% and 10% will be offered in case a Policy is purchased for 2-year and 3-year 
tenure respectively, provided he has paid the premium in advance as a single premium. 
 
 
Stay Active 
 
We will offer a discount at each renewal if the insured member achieves the average step count 
target on the mobile application provided by Us in the specified time interval ( calculated from 
the policy risk start date) as per the grid below.  In an individual policy, the average step count 
would be calculated per adult member and in a floater policy it would be an average of all adult 
members covered. Dependent children covered either in individual or floater plan will not be 
considered for calculation of average steps. 
 
This discount will be accrued at defined  time intervals as given in table below. The discount will 
be cumulated and offered as discount on the renewal premium.  
 
In individual policies the discount percentage (%) would be applied on premium applicable per 
insured member (Dependent Children are not eligible for this stay active discount in an individual 
policy) and in a floater policy it would be applied on premium applicable on policy.  
The discount grid would be as per the table below: 
 
1 Year Policy 
 Time Interval (calculated from policy risk start date) 
Average Step 
Target 
Risk start date or 
date of download of 
mobile application -
90 days 
91-180 
days 
181-270 
days 
271-300 days Maximum 
Discount at 
the end of 
the year 
5000 or below   0% 0% 0% 
5001 to 8000 0.5% 0.5%  0.5% 0.5%  2% 
Pl Note: 
The application of loading does not mean that the illness/ condition, for which loading has been applied, would 
be covered from inception. Any waiting period as mentioned in Section C.1 i),ii) & iii)  above or specifically 
mentioned on the Policy Schedule shall be applied on illness/condition, as applicable. 
 

--- PAGE 28 ---

Optima Restore – Policy Wordings               
 
 
  
 
28 
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited. IRDAI Reg. No.146. CIN: U66030MH2007PLC177117. Registered & Corporate Office: 
1st Floor, HDFC House, 165 -166 Backbay Reclamation, H. T. Parekh Marg, Churchgate, Mumbai – 400 020. Trade Logo displayed above 
belongs to HDFC Ltd and ERGO International AG and used by the  Company under license. Optima Restore: HDFHLIP22193V072122        
8001 to 10000  1.25% 1.25% 1.25% 1.25% 5% 
Above 10000 2% 2% 2% 2% 8% 
 
2 Year Policy 
 Time Interval (calculated from policy risk start date) 
  
Average 
Step 
target 
Risk start 
date or 
date of 
download 
of mobile 
application 
-90 days 
91-180 
days 
181-
270 
days 
271-
360 
days 
361-
450 
days 
451-
540 
days 
541-
630 
days 
631-
660 
days 
Maximum 
Discount 
at the 
end of 2 
years 
5000 or 
below 
0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 
5001 to 
8000 
0.25% 0.25% 0.25% 0.25% 0.25% 0.25% 0.25% 0.25% 2% 
8001 to 
10000 
0.625% 0.625% 0.625% 0.625% 0.625% 0.625% 0.625% 0.625% 5% 
Above 
10000 
 
1% 
 
1% 
 
1% 
 
1% 
 
1% 
 
1% 
 
1% 
 
1% 
 8% 
 
3 Year Policy 
 
Time Interval (calculated from policy risk start date) 
  Average 
Step 
target 
Risk start date 
or date of 
download of 
mobile 
application -
90 days 
91-180 days 181-270 
days 
271-360 
days 
361-450 
days 
451-540 days 
5000 or 
below 
0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 
5001 to 
8000 
0.0139% 0.1667% 0.1667% 0.1667% 0.1667% 0.1667% 
8001 to 
10000 
0.41667% 0.41667% 0.41667% 0.41667% 0.41667% 0.41667% 
Above 
10000 
0.6667% 0.6667% 0.6667% 0.6667% 0.6667% 0.6667% 
 
Time Interval (calculated from policy risk start date) 
541-630 
days 
631-720 
days 
721-810 
days 
811-900 
days 
901-990 
days 
991-1020 
days 
Maximum 
Discount at 
the end of 3 
years 

--- PAGE 29 ---

Optima Restore – Policy Wordings               
 
 
  
 
29 
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited. IRDAI Reg. No.146. CIN: U66030MH2007PLC177117. Registered & Corporate Office: 
1st Floor, HDFC House, 165 -166 Backbay Reclamation, H. T. Parekh Marg, Churchgate, Mumbai – 400 020. Trade Logo displayed above 
belongs to HDFC Ltd and ERGO International AG and used by the  Company under license. Optima Restore: HDFHLIP22193V072122        
0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 
0.1667% 0.1667% 0.1667% 0.1667% 0.1667% 0.1667% 2% 
0.41667% 0.41667% 0.41667% 0.41667% 0.41667% 0.41667% 5% 
0.6667% 0.6667% 0.6667% 0.6667% 0.6667% 0.6667% 8% 
 
The mobile app must be downloaded within 30 days of the policy risk start date to avail this 
benefit.  The average step count completed by an Insured member would be tracked on this mobile 
application.  
 
We reserve the right to remove or reduce any count of steps if found to be achieved in unfair 
manner by manipulation.   
 
Illustration 
 
Policy start date 1st Jan 2016 
Policy Tenure 1 year 
 
Time Interval 
  
Risk start date or 
date of download of 
mobile application -
90 days 91 days-180 days 181 days-270 days 
271- 300 
days 
average steps taken in 
the defined time period 8500 10000 5001 7500 
Discount %applicable 1.25% 1.25%  0.5% 0.5% 
 
Total discount applicable on renewal premium = 3.5% 
 
d. Notification of Claim   
 
 Treatment, Consultation or Procedure: We must be informed: 
i)  If any treatment for which a claim may be made is to 
be taken and that treatment requires 
Hospitalisation: 
Immediately and in any event at least 48 hours prior 
to the Insured Person’s admission. 
ii)  If any treatment for which a claim may be made is to 
be taken and that treatment requires 
Hospitalisation in an Emergency: 
Within 24 hours of the Insured Person’s admission to 
Hospital. 
iii)  For all benefits which are contingent on Our prior 
acceptance of a claim under Section 1)a): 
Within 7 days of the Insured Person’s discharge post-
hospitalisation. 
 
e. Cashless Service: 
 
 Treatment, Consultation 
or Procedure: 
Treatment, 
Consultation or 
Procedure 
Taken at: 
Cashless Service is Available: We must be given notice that 
the Insured Person wishes to 
take advantage of the 
cashless service accompanied 

--- PAGE 30 ---

Optima Restore – Policy Wordings               
 
 
  
 
30 
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited. IRDAI Reg. No.146. CIN: U66030MH2007PLC177117. Registered & Corporate Office: 
1st Floor, HDFC House, 165 -166 Backbay Reclamation, H. T. Parekh Marg, Churchgate, Mumbai – 400 020. Trade Logo displayed above 
belongs to HDFC Ltd and ERGO International AG and used by the  Company under license. Optima Restore: HDFHLIP22193V072122        
by full particulars: 
ii)  If any planned treatment, 
consultation or 
procedure for which a 
claim may be made: 
Network 
Hospital  
We will provide cashless service 
by making payment to the 
extent of Our liability directly to 
the Network Hospital. 
At least 48 hours before the 
planned treatment or 
Hospitalisation  
iii)  If any treatment, 
consultation or 
procedure for which a 
claim may be made to be 
taken in an Emergency: 
Network 
Hospital 
We will provide cashless service 
by making payment to the 
extent of Our liability directly to 
the Network Hospital. 
Within 24 hours after the 
treatment or Hospitalisation  
 
f. Supporting Documentation & Examination 
 
The Insured Person or someone claiming on Your behalf shall provide Us with any documentation, 
medical  records and information We may request to establish the circumstances of the claim, its 
quantum or Our liability for the claim within 15 days of the earlier of Our request or the Insured Person’s 
discharge from Hospitalisation or completion of treatment.  The Company may accept claims where 
documents have been provided after a delayed interval only in special circumstances and for the reasons 
beyond the control of the insured. Such documentation will include but is not limited to the following:  
 
i) Our claim form, duly completed and signed for on behalf of the Insured Person.  
ii) Original Bills (including but not limited to pharmacy purchase bill, consultation bill, 
diagnostic bill) and any attachments thereto like receipts or prescriptions in support of 
any amount claimed which will then become Our property. 
iii) All reports and records, including but not limited to all medical reports, case 
histories/indoor case papers, investigation reports, treatment papers, discharge summaries. 
iv) A precise diagnosis of the treatment for which a claim is made.  
v) A detailed list of the individual medical services and treatments provided and a unit price 
for each (detailed break up).  
vi) Prescriptions that name the Insured Person and in the case of drugs: the drugs prescribed, 
their price and a receipt for payment.   Prescriptions must be submitted with the 
corresponding Doctor’s invoice. 
vii) All pre and post investigation, treatment and follow up (consultation) records pertaining 
to the present ailment for which claim is being made 
viii) All investigation, treatment and follow up records pertaining to the past ailment(s) since 
their first diagnoses or detection 
ix) Treating doctor’s certificate regarding missing information in case histories e.g. 
Circumstance of injury and Alcohol or drug influence at the time of accident  
x) Copy of settlement letter from other insurance company or TPA 
xi) Stickers and invoice of implants used during surgery 
xii) Copy of MLC (Medico l egal case) records and FIR (First information report), in case of 
claims arising out of an accident 
xiii) Regulatory requirements as amended from time to time, currently mandatory NEFT (to 
enable direct credit of claim amount in bank account) and KYC (recent ID/ Address proof 
and photograph) requirements 
xiv) Legal heir certificate  
 
g. The Insured Person shall have to undergo medical examination by Our authorised Medical 
Practitioner, as and when We may reasonably require, to obtain an independent opinion for 
the purpose of processing any claim. We will bear the cost towards performing such medical 
examination (at the specified location) of the Insured Person. 

--- PAGE 31 ---

Optima Restore – Policy Wordings               
 
 
  
 
31 
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited. IRDAI Reg. No.146. CIN: U66030MH2007PLC177117. Registered & Corporate Office: 
1st Floor, HDFC House, 165 -166 Backbay Reclamation, H. T. Parekh Marg, Churchgate, Mumbai – 400 020. Trade Logo displayed above 
belongs to HDFC Ltd and ERGO International AG and used by the  Company under license. Optima Restore: HDFHLIP22193V072122        
 
h. Non Disclosure or Misrepresentation:  
 
i. If at the time of issuance of Policy or during continuation of the Policy, the information provided 
to Us in the proposal form or otherwise, by You or the Insured Person or anyone acting on behalf 
of You or an Insured Person is found to be incorrect, incom plete, suppressed or not disclosed, 
wilfully or otherwise, the Policy shall be:  
 cancelled ab initio from the inception date or the renewal date (as the case may be), or 
the Policy may be modified by Us,  at our sole discretion, upon 15 day notice by sending 
an endorsement to Your address shown in the Schedule and  
 the claim under such Policy if any, shall be rejected/repudiated forthwith.  
 
ii. We may also exercise any of the below listed options for the purpose of continuing the health 
insurance coverage in ca se of Non -Disclosure/Misrepresentation of Pre -existing diseases subject 
to your prior consent; 
 
a) Permanently exclude the disease/condition and continue with the Policy  
b) Incorporate additional waiting period of not exceeding 4 years for the said undisclosed 
disease or condition from the date the non-disclosed condition was detected and continue 
with the Policy. 
c)  Levy underwriting loading from the first year of issuance of policy or renewal, whichever 
is later. 
 
The above options will not prejudice the rights o f the Company to invoke cancellation under 
clause i above.  
 
i. Endorsements 
 
This Policy constitutes the complete contract of insurance. This Policy cannot be changed by anyone 
(including an insurance agent or broker) except Us. Any change that We make will be evidenced by a 
written endorsement signed and stamped by Us. 
 
j. Change of Policyholder 
 
The Policyholder may be changed only at the time of renewal. The new policyholder must be a 
member of the Insured Person’s immediate family. Such change would be subject to Our 
acceptance and payment of premium (if any). The renewed Policy shall be treated  as having been 
renewed without break. 
 
The Policyholder may be changed in case of his demise or him moving out of India during the 
Policy Period. 
 
k. Notices 
 
Any notice, direction or instruction under this Policy shall be in writing and if it is to: 
i) Any Ins ured Person, it would be sent to You at the address specified in Schedule / 
endorsement 
ii) Us, shall be delivered to Our address specified in the Schedule. 

--- PAGE 32 ---

Optima Restore – Policy Wordings               
 
 
  
 
32 
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited. IRDAI Reg. No.146. CIN: U66030MH2007PLC177117. Registered & Corporate Office: 
1st Floor, HDFC House, 165 -166 Backbay Reclamation, H. T. Parekh Marg, Churchgate, Mumbai – 400 020. Trade Logo displayed above 
belongs to HDFC Ltd and ERGO International AG and used by the  Company under license. Optima Restore: HDFHLIP22193V072122        
iii) No insurance agents, brokers, other person/ entity is authorised to receive any notice on Our 
behalf. 
 
Section E) Other Terms & Conditions:  
 
a. Claim Related Information 
For any claim related query, intimation of claim and submission of claim related documents, You can 
contact HDFC ERGO  General Insurance Company Limited  through:  
- Website  :  www.hdfcergo.com 
- Email                  :  care@hdfcergo.com 
- Customer Care  : 022 6234 6234 / 0120 6234 6234  
- Fax   :  1800- 425- 4077 
- Courier  : HDFC ERGO General Insurance company Ltd, 5th floor, Tower 1,   
Stellar IT Park, C-25, Sector-62, Noida, UP, India – 201301 
 
 
Additional Note : Please refer to the list of empaneled network centers on our website or the list 
provided in the welcome kit. 
 
b. Ombudsman Details 
Office Details Jurisdiction of Office 
Union Territory, District) 
AHMEDABAD - Shri Kuldip Singh 
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 
Jeevan Prakash Building, 6th floor, 
Tilak Marg, Relief Road, 
Ahmedabad – 380 001. 
Tel.: 079 - 25501201/02/05/06 
Email: bimalokpal.ahmedabad@cioins.co.in 
Gujarat, 
Dadra & Nagar Haveli, 
Daman and Diu. 
BENGALURU - Smt. Neerja Shah 
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 
Jeevan Soudha Building,PID No. 57-27-N-19 
Ground Floor, 19/19, 24th Main Road, 
JP Nagar, Ist Phase, 
Bengaluru – 560 078. 
Tel.: 080 - 26652048 / 26652049 
Email: bimalokpal.bengaluru@cioins.co.in 
Karnataka. 
BHOPAL - Shri Guru Saran Shrivastava 
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 
Janak Vihar Complex, 2nd Floor, 
6, Malviya Nagar, Opp. Airtel Office, 
Near New Market, 
Bhopal – 462 003. 
Tel.: 0755 - 2769201 / 2769202 
Fax: 0755 - 2769203 
Email: bimalokpal.bhopal@cioins.co.in 
Madhya Pradesh 
Chattisgarh. 
BHUBANESHWAR - Shri Suresh Chandra Panda 
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 
62, Forest park, 
Bhubneshwar – 751 009. 
Orissa. 

--- PAGE 33 ---

Optima Restore – Policy Wordings               
 
 
  
 
33 
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited. IRDAI Reg. No.146. CIN: U66030MH2007PLC177117. Registered & Corporate Office: 
1st Floor, HDFC House, 165 -166 Backbay Reclamation, H. T. Parekh Marg, Churchgate, Mumbai – 400 020. Trade Logo displayed above 
belongs to HDFC Ltd and ERGO International AG and used by the  Company under license. Optima Restore: HDFHLIP22193V072122        
Tel.: 0674 - 2596461 /2596455 
Fax: 0674 - 2596429 
Email: bimalokpal.bhubaneswar@cioins.co.in 
CHANDIGARH - Dr. Dinesh Kumar Verma 
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 
S.C.O. No. 101, 102 & 103, 2nd Floor, 
Batra Building, Sector 17 – D, 
Chandigarh – 160 017. 
Tel.: 0172 - 2706196 / 2706468 
Fax: 0172 - 2708274 
Email: bimalokpal.chandigarh@cioins.co.in 
Punjab, 
Haryana(excluding Gurugram, Faridabad, 
Sonepat and Bahadurgarh) 
Himachal Pradesh, Union Territories of Jammu 
& Kashmir, 
Ladakh & Chandigarh. 
CHENNAI - Shri M. Vasantha Krishna 
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 
Fatima Akhtar Court, 4th Floor, 453, 
Anna Salai, Teynampet, 
CHENNAI – 600 018. 
Tel.: 044 - 24333668 / 24335284 
Fax: 044 - 24333664 
Email: bimalokpal.chennai@cioins.co.in 
Tamil Nadu, 
Tamil Nadu 
PuducherryTown and 
Karaikal (which are part of Puducherry). 
DELHI - Shri Sudhir Krishna 
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 
2/2 A, Universal Insurance Building, 
Asaf Ali Road, 
New Delhi – 110 002. 
Tel.: 011 - 23232481/23213504 
Email: bimalokpal.delhi@cioins.co.in 
Delhi & 
Following Districts of Haryana - Gurugram, 
Faridabad, Sonepat & Bahadurgarh. 
GUWAHATI - Shri Kiriti .B. Saha 
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 
Jeevan Nivesh, 5th Floor, 
Nr. Panbazar over bridge, S.S. Road, 
Guwahati – 781001(ASSAM). 
Tel.: 0361 - 2632204 / 2602205 
Email: bimalokpal.guwahati@cioins.co.in 
Assam, 
Meghalaya, 
Manipur, 
Mizoram, 
Arunachal Pradesh, 
Nagaland and Tripura. 
HYDERABAD - Shri I. Suresh Babu 
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 
6-2-46, 1st floor, "Moin Court", 
Lane Opp. Saleem Function Palace, 
A. C. Guards, Lakdi-Ka-Pool, 
Hyderabad - 500 004. 
Tel.: 040 - 23312122 
Fax: 040 - 23376599 
Email: bimalokpal.hyderabad@cioins.co.in 
Andhra Pradesh, 
Telangana, 
Yanam and 
part of Union Territory of Puducherry. 
JAIPUR - Smt. Sandhya Baliga 
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 
Jeevan Nidhi – II Bldg., Gr. Floor, 
Bhawani Singh Marg, 
Jaipur - 302 005. 
Tel.: 0141 - 2740363 
Email: bimalokpal.jaipur@cioins.co.in 
 
Rajasthan. 
ERNAKULAM - Ms. Poonam Bodra Kerala, 

--- PAGE 34 ---

Optima Restore – Policy Wordings               
 
 
  
 
34 
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited. IRDAI Reg. No.146. CIN: U66030MH2007PLC177117. Registered & Corporate Office: 
1st Floor, HDFC House, 165 -166 Backbay Reclamation, H. T. Parekh Marg, Churchgate, Mumbai – 400 020. Trade Logo displayed above 
belongs to HDFC Ltd and ERGO International AG and used by the  Company under license. Optima Restore: HDFHLIP22193V072122        
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 
2nd Floor, Pulinat Bldg., 
Opp. Cochin Shipyard, M. G. Road, 
Ernakulam - 682 015. 
Tel.: 0484 - 2358759 / 2359338 
Fax: 0484 - 2359336 
Email: bimalokpal.ernakulam@cioins.co.in 
Lakshadweep, 
Mahe-a part of Union Territory of Puducherry. 
KOLKATA - Shri P. K. Rath 
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 
Hindustan Bldg. Annexe, 4th Floor, 
4, C.R. Avenue, 
KOLKATA - 700 072. 
Tel.: 033 - 22124339 / 22124340 
Fax : 033 - 22124341 
Email: bimalokpal.kolkata@cioins.co.in 
West Bengal, 
Sikkim, 
Andaman & Nicobar Islands. 
LUCKNOW -Shri Justice Anil Kumar Srivastava 
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 
6th Floor, Jeevan Bhawan, Phase-II, 
Nawal Kishore Road, Hazratganj, 
Lucknow - 226 001. 
Tel.: 0522 - 2231330 / 2231331 
Fax: 0522 - 2231310 
Email: bimalokpal.lucknow@cioins.co.in 
Districts of Uttar Pradesh : 
Lalitpur, Jhansi, Mahoba, Hamirpur, Banda, 
Chitrakoot, Allahabad, Mirzapur, Sonbhabdra, 
Fatehpur, Pratapgarh, Jaunpur,Varanasi, 
Gazipur, Jalaun, Kanpur, Lucknow, Unnao, 
Sitapur, Lakhimpur, Bahraich, Barabanki, 
Raebareli, Sravasti, Gonda, Faizabad, Amethi, 
Kaushambi, Balrampur, Basti, 
Ambedkarnagar, Sultanpur, Maharajgang, 
Santkabirnagar, Azamgarh, Kushinagar, 
Gorkhpur, Deoria, Mau, Ghazipur, Chandauli, 
Ballia, Sidharathnagar. 
MUMBAI - Shri Milind A. Kharat 
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 
3rd Floor, Jeevan Seva Annexe, 
S. V. Road, Santacruz (W), 
Mumbai - 400 054. 
Tel.: 022 - 26106552 / 26106960 
Fax: 022 - 26106052 
Email: bimalokpal.mumbai@cioins.co.in 
Goa, 
Mumbai Metropolitan Region 
excluding Navi Mumbai & Thane. 
NOIDA - Shri Chandra Shekhar Prasad 
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 
Bhagwan Sahai Palace 
4th Floor, Main Road, 
Naya Bans, Sector 15, 
Distt: Gautam Buddh Nagar, 
U.P-201301. 
Tel.: 0120-2514252 / 2514253 
Email: bimalokpal.noida@cioins.co.in 
State of Uttaranchal and the following 
Districts of Uttar Pradesh: 
Agra, Aligarh, Bagpat, Bareilly, Bijnor, Budaun, 
Bulandshehar, Etah, Kanooj, Mainpuri, 
Mathura, Meerut, Moradabad, 
Muzaffarnagar, Oraiyya, Pilibhit, Etawah, 
Farrukhabad, Firozbad, Gautambodhanagar, 
Ghaziabad, Hardoi, Shahjahanpur, Hapur, 
Shamli, Rampur, Kashganj, Sambhal, Amroha, 
Hathras, Kanshiramnagar, Saharanpur. 
PATNA - Shri N. K. Singh 
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 
1st Floor,Kalpana Arcade Building,, 
Bazar Samiti Road, 
Bahadurpur, 
Patna 800 006. 
Bihar, 
Jharkhand. 

--- PAGE 35 ---

Optima Restore – Policy Wordings               
 
 
  
 
35 
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited. IRDAI Reg. No.146. CIN: U66030MH2007PLC177117. Registered & Corporate Office: 
1st Floor, HDFC House, 165 -166 Backbay Reclamation, H. T. Parekh Marg, Churchgate, Mumbai – 400 020. Trade Logo displayed above 
belongs to HDFC Ltd and ERGO International AG and used by the  Company under license. Optima Restore: HDFHLIP22193V072122        
Tel.: 0612-2680952 
Email: bimalokpal.patna@cioins.co.in 
PUNE - Shri Vinay Sah 
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 
Jeevan Darshan Bldg., 3rd Floor, 
C.T.S. No.s. 195 to 198, 
N.C. Kelkar Road, Narayan Peth, 
Pune – 411 030. 
Tel.: 020-41312555 
Email: bimalokpal.pune@cioins.co.in 
Maharashtra, 
Area of Navi Mumbai and Thane 
excluding Mumbai Metropolitan Region. 
 
This Policy is subject to regulation 12 of IRDAI (Protection of Policyholder’s Interests) Regulations 2017. 

--- PAGE 36 ---

Optima Restore – Policy Wordings               
 
 
  
 
36 
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited. IRDAI Reg. No.146. CIN: U66030MH2007PLC177117. Registered & Corporate Office: 
1st Floor, HDFC House, 165 -166 Backbay Reclamation, H. T. Parekh Marg, Churchgate, Mumbai – 400 020. Trade Logo displayed above 
belongs to HDFC Ltd and ERGO International AG and used by the  Company under license. Optima Restore: HDFHLIP22193V072122        
Annexure I  
List  I - Items for which coverage is not available in the policy  
 
 
S. No. Item S. 
No. 
Item 
1 BABY FOOD 35 OXYGEN CYLINDER (FOR USAGE OUTSIDE THE 
HOSPITAL)  
2 BABY UTILITIES CHARGES 36 SPACER  
3 BEAUTY SERVICES 37 SPIROMETRE  
4 BELTS/ BRACES 38 NEBULIZER KIT 
5 BUDS 39 STEAM INHALER 
6 COLD PACK/HOT PACK 40 ARMSLING 
7 CARRY BAGS 41 THERMOMETER 
8 EMAIL / INTERNET CHARGES 42 CERVICAL COLLAR 
9 FOOD CHARGES (OTHER THAN 
PATIENT'S DIET PROVIDED BY 
HOSPITAL) 
43 SPLINT 
10 LEGGINGS 44 DIABETIC FOOT WEAR 
11 LAUNDRY CHARGES 45 KNEE BRACES (LONG/ SHORT/ HINGED)  
12 MINERAL WATER 46 KNEE IMMOBILIZER/SHOULDER IMMOBILIZER 
13 SANITARY PAD  47 LUMBO SACRAL BELT 
14 TELEPHONE CHARGES 48 NIMBUS BED OR WATER OR AIR BED CHARGES 
15 GUEST SERVICES 49 AMBULANCE COLLAR 
16 CREPE BANDAGE 50 AMBULANCE EQUIPMENT 
17 DIAPER OF ANY TYPE 51 ABDOMINAL BINDER 
18 EYELET COLLAR 52 PRIVATE NURSES CHARGES- SPECIAL NURSING 
CHARGES  
19 SLINGS 53  SUGAR FREE TABLETS 
20 BLOOD GROUPING AND CROSS 
MATCHING OF DONORS SAMPLES 
54 CREAMS POWDERS LOTIONS (TOILETRIES ARE 
NOT PAYABLE, ONLY PRESCRIBED MEDICAL 
PHARMACEUTICALS PAYABLE) 
21 SERVICE CHARGES WHERE NURSING 
CHARGE ALSO CHARGED 
55 ECG ELECTRODES 
22 TELEVISION CHARGES 56 GLOVES 
23 SURCHARGES 57 NEBULISATION KIT 
24 ATTENDANT CHARGES 58 ANY KIT WITH NO DETAILS MENTIONED 
[DELIVERY KIT, ORTHOKIT, RECOVERY KIT, ETC] 
25 EXTRA DIET OF PATIENT (OTHER THAN 
THAT WHICH FORMS PART OF BED 
CHARGE) 
59 KIDNEY TRAY 
26 BIRTH CERTIFICATE 60 MASK  
27 CERTIFICATE CHARGES 61 OUNCE GLASS 
28 COURIER CHARGES 62 OXYGEN MASK 
29 CONVEYANCE CHARGES 63 PELVIC TRACTION BELT  
30 MEDICAL CERTIFICATE 64 PAN CAN 
31 MEDICAL RECORDS 65 TROLLY COVER 
32 PHOTOCOPIES CHARGES 66 UROMETER, URINE JUG 
33 MORTUARY CHARGES  67 AMBULANCE 

--- PAGE 37 ---

Optima Restore – Policy Wordings               
 
 
  
 
37 
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited. IRDAI Reg. No.146. CIN: U66030MH2007PLC177117. Registered & Corporate Office: 
1st Floor, HDFC House, 165 -166 Backbay Reclamation, H. T. Parekh Marg, Churchgate, Mumbai – 400 020. Trade Logo displayed above 
belongs to HDFC Ltd and ERGO International AG and used by the  Company under license. Optima Restore: HDFHLIP22193V072122        
 
List II – Items that are to be subsumed into Room Charges 
 
 
List III – Items that are to be subsumed into Procedure Charges 
 
34 WALKING AIDS CHARGES 68 VASOFIX SAFETY 
Sl 
No 
Item 
1 BABY CHARGES (UNLESS SPECIFIED/INDICATED) 
2 HAND WASH 
3 SHOE COVER 
4 CAPS 
5 CRADLE CHARGES 
6 COMB 
7 EAU-DE-COLOGNE / ROOM FRESHNERS 
8 FOOT COVER 
9 GOWN 
10 SLIPPERS  
11 TISSUE PAPER 
12 TOOTH PASTE 
13 TOOTH BRUSH 
14 BED PAN 
15 FACE MASK 
16 FLEXI MASK 
17 HAND HOLDER 
18 SPUTUM CUP  
19 DISINFECTANT LOTIONS 
20 LUXURY TAX 
21 HVAC 
22 HOUSE KEEPING CHARGES 
23 AIR CONDITIONER CHARGES 
24 IM IV INJECTION CHARGES  
25 CLEAN SHEET 
26 BLANKET/WARMER BLANKET 
27 ADMISSION KIT 
28 DIABETIC CHART CHARGES 
29 DOCUMENTATION CHARGES / ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES 
30 DISCHARGE PROCEDURE CHARGES 
31 DAILY CHART CHARGES 
32 ENTRANCE PASS / VISITORS PASS CHARGES 
33 EXPENSES RELATED TO PRESCRIPTION ON DISCHARGE 
34 FILE OPENING CHARGES 
35 INCIDENTAL EXPENSES / MISC. CHARGES (NOT EXPLAINED) 
36 PATIENT IDENTIFICATION BAND / NAME TAG 
37 PULSEOXYMETER CHARGES 
Sl Item 

--- PAGE 38 ---

Optima Restore – Policy Wordings               
 
 
  
 
38 
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited. IRDAI Reg. No.146. CIN: U66030MH2007PLC177117. Registered & Corporate Office: 
1st Floor, HDFC House, 165 -166 Backbay Reclamation, H. T. Parekh Marg, Churchgate, Mumbai – 400 020. Trade Logo displayed above 
belongs to HDFC Ltd and ERGO International AG and used by the  Company under license. Optima Restore: HDFHLIP22193V072122        
 
List IV – Items that are to be subsumed into costs of treatment 
 
No. 
1 HAIR REMOVAL CREAM 
2 DISPOSABLES RAZORS CHARGES (for site preparations) 
3 EYE PAD 
4 EYE SHEILD 
5 CAMERA COVER 
6 DVD, CD CHARGES 
7 GAUSE SOFT 
8 GAUZE 
9 WARD AND THEATRE BOOKING CHARGES 
10 ARTHROSCOPY AND ENDOSCOPY INSTRUMENTS 
11 MICROSCOPE COVER  
12 SURGICAL BLADES, HARMONICSCALPEL,SHAVER 
13 SURGICAL DRILL 
14 EYE KIT  
15 EYE DRAPE 
16 X-RAY FILM 
17 BOYLES APPARATUS CHARGES 
18 COTTON 
19 COTTON BANDAGE 
20 SURGICAL TAPE 
21 APRON 
22 TORNIQUET  
23 ORTHOBUNDLE, GYNAEC BUNDLE 
Sl 
No. 
Item 
1 ADMISSION/REGISTRATION CHARGES 
2 HOSPITALISATION FOR EVALUATION/ DIAGNOSTIC PURPOSE 
3 URINE CONTAINER 
4 BLOOD RESERVATION CHARGES AND ANTE NATAL BOOKING CHARGES 
5 BIPAP MACHINE 
6 CPAP/ CAPD EQUIPMENTS 
7 INFUSION PUMP– COST 
8 HYDROGEN PEROXIDE\SPIRIT\ DISINFECTANTS ETC 
9 NUTRITION PLANNING CHARGES - DIETICIAN CHARGES- DIET CHARGES  
10 HIV KIT 
11 ANTISEPTIC MOUTHWASH 
12 LOZENGES 
13 MOUTH PAINT 
14 VACCINATION CHARGES 
15 ALCOHOL SWABES 
16 SCRUB SOLUTION/STERILLIUM 
17 Glucometer& Strips 
18 URINE BAG 

--- PAGE 39 ---

Optima Restore – Policy Wordings               
 
 
  
 
39 
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited. IRDAI Reg. No.146. CIN: U66030MH2007PLC177117. Registered & Corporate Office: 
1st Floor, HDFC House, 165 -166 Backbay Reclamation, H. T. Parekh Marg, Churchgate, Mumbai – 400 020. Trade Logo displayed above 
belongs to HDFC Ltd and ERGO International AG and used by the  Company under license. Optima Restore: HDFHLIP22193V072122        
Schedule of benefits  
 
Optima Restore Individual  
Basic Sum Insured 
per Insured Person 
per Policy Year (Rs. 
in Lakh) 
3.00  5.00 10.00 15.00 20.00, 25.00, 
50.00, 100.00 
1a) In-patient 
Treatment Covered Covered Covered Covered Covered 
1b) Pre-
Hospitalization  
Covered, upto 60 
Days 
Covered, upto 60 
Days 
Covered, upto 60 
Days 
Covered, upto 
60 Days 
Covered, upto 
60 Days 
1c) Post-
Hospitalization 
Covered, upto 180 
Days 
Covered, upto 180 
Days 
Covered, upto 180 
Days 
Covered, upto 
180 Days 
Covered, upto 
180 Days 
1d) Day Care 
Procedures  Covered Covered Covered Covered Covered 
1e) Domiciliary 
Treatment Covered Covered Covered Covered Covered 
1f) Organ Donor Covered Covered Covered Covered Covered 
1g) Ambulance 
Cover 
Upto Rs.2,000 per 
Hospitalisation 
Upto Rs.2,000 per 
Hospitalisation 
Upto Rs.2,000 per 
Hospitalisation 
Upto Rs.2,000 
per 
Hospitalisation 
Upto Rs.2,000 
per 
Hospitalisation 
1h)  Daily Cash for 
choosing Shared 
Accommodation  
Rs.800 per day, 
Maximum Rs.4,800 
Rs.800 per day, 
Maximum Rs.4,800 
Rs.800 per day, 
Maximum 
Rs.4,800 
Rs.800 per day, 
Maximum 
Rs.4,800 
Rs.1000 per 
day, 
Maximum 
Rs.6,000 
1i)  E-Opinion in 
respect of a Critical 
Illness 
Covered Covered Covered Covered Covered 
1j) Emergency Air 
Ambulance Cover 
Not Covered Not Covered Covered Covered Covered 
2a) Restore Benefit Equal to 100% of 
Basic Sum Insured 
Equal to 100% of 
Basic Sum Insured 
Equal to 100% of 
Basic Sum Insured 
Equal to 100% 
of Basic Sum 
Insured 
Equal to 100% 
of Basic Sum 
Insured 
2b) Unlimited 
Restore Benefit 
(Optional Benefit) 
Applicable if opted Applicable if opted Applicable if 
opted 
Applicable if 
opted 
Applicable if 
opted 
3) Preventive Health 
Checkup (per 
person) 
Not Applicable Upto Rs 1500 Upto Rs. 2000 Upto Rs. 4000 Upto Rs. 5000 
4) Multiplier Benefit 
Bonus of 50% of the 
Basic Sum Insured 
for every claim free 
year, maximum 
upto 100%. In case 
of claim, bonus will 
be reduced by 50%  
of the Basic Sum 
Insured at the time 
of renewal 
Bonus of 50% of the 
Basic Sum Insured 
for every claim free 
year, maximum 
upto 100%. In case 
of claim, bonus will 
be reduced by 50%  
of the Basic Sum 
Insured at the time 
of renewal 
Bonus of 50% of 
the Basic Sum 
Insured for every 
claim free year, 
maximum upto 
100%. In case of 
claim, bonus will 
be reduced by 
50%  of the Basic 
Sum Insured at 
the time of 
renewal 
Bonus of 50% of 
the Basic Sum 
Insured for 
every claim free 
year, maximum 
upto 100%. In 
case of c laim, 
bonus will be 
reduced by 50%  
of the Basic 
Sum Insured at 
the time of 
Bonus of 50% 
of the Basic 
Sum Insured 
for every claim 
free year, 
maximum 
upto 100%. In 
case of claim, 
bonus will be 
reduced by 
50%  of the 
Basic Sum 

--- PAGE 40 ---

Optima Restore – Policy Wordings               
 
 
  
 
40 
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited. IRDAI Reg. No.146. CIN: U66030MH2007PLC177117. Registered & Corporate Office: 
1st Floor, HDFC House, 165 -166 Backbay Reclamation, H. T. Parekh Marg, Churchgate, Mumbai – 400 020. Trade Logo displayed above 
belongs to HDFC Ltd and ERGO International AG and used by the  Company under license. Optima Restore: HDFHLIP22193V072122        
renewal Insured at the 
time of 
renewal 
 
 
  

--- PAGE 41 ---

Optima Restore – Policy Wordings               
 
 
  
 
41 
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited. IRDAI Reg. No.146. CIN: U66030MH2007PLC177117. Registered & Corporate Office: 
1st Floor, HDFC House, 165 -166 Backbay Reclamation, H. T. Parekh Marg, Churchgate, Mumbai – 400 020. Trade Logo displayed above 
belongs to HDFC Ltd and ERGO International AG and used by the  Company under license. Optima Restore: HDFHLIP22193V072122        
 
Optima Restore Family 
Basic Sum Insured 
per Insured Person 
per Policy Year (Rs. 
in Lakh) 
3.00 5.00 10.00 15.00 20.00, 
25.00, 
50.00, 
100.00 
1a) In-patient 
Treatment Covered Covered Covered Covered Covered 
1b) Pre-
Hospitalization  
Covered, upto 
60 Days 
Covered, upto 
60 Days 
Covered, upto 60 
Days Covered, upto 60 Days Covered, upto 60 
Days 
1c) Post-
Hospitalization 
Covered, upto 
180 Days 
Covered, upto 
180 Days 
Covered, upto 180 
Days 
Covered, upto 180 
Days 
Covered, upto 
180 Days 
1d) Day Care 
Procedures  Covered Covered Covered Covered Covered 
1e) Domiciliary 
Treatment Covered Covered Covered Covered Covered 
1f) Organ Donor Covered Covered Covered Covered Covered 
1g) Ambulance 
Cover 
Upto Rs.2,000 
per 
Hospitalisation 
Upto Rs.2,000 
per 
Hospitalisation 
Upto Rs.2,000 per 
Hospitalisation 
Upto Rs.2,000 per 
Hospitalisation 
Upto Rs.2,000 per 
Hospitalisation 
1h)  Daily Cash for 
choosing Shared 
Accommodation 
 
Rs.800 per 
day, 
Maximum 
Rs.4,800 
Rs.800 per 
day, 
Maximum 
Rs.4,800 
Rs.800 per day, 
Maximum Rs.4,800 
Rs.800 per day, 
Maximum Rs.4,800 
Rs.1000 per day, 
Maximum 
Rs.6,000 
1i)  E-Opinion in 
respect of a Critical 
Illness 
Covered Covered Covered Covered Covered 
1j) Emergency Air 
Ambulance Cover 
Not Covered Not Covered Covered Covered Covered 
2a. Restore Benefit 
Equal to 100% 
of Basic Sum 
Insured 
Equal to 100% 
of Basic Sum 
Insured 
Equal to 100% of 
Basic Sum Insured 
Equal to 100% of Basic 
Sum Insured 
Equal to 100% of 
Basic Sum Insured 
2b. Unlimited 
Restore Benefit 
(Optional Benefit) 
Applicable if 
opted 
Applicable if 
opted Applicable if opted Applicable if opted Applicable if 
opted 
3) Preventive 
Health Checkup 
(per policy) 
Not Applicable Upto Rs 2500 Upto Rs.5000 Upto Rs. 8000 Upto Rs. 10,000 
4) Multiplier 
Benefit 
Bonus of 50% 
of the  Basic 
Sum Insured 
for every claim 
free year, 
maximum 
upto 100%. In 
case of claim, 
bonus will be 
reduced by 
50%  of the 
Basic Sum 
Insured at the 
Bonus of 50% 
of the Basic 
Sum Insured 
for every claim 
free year, 
maximum 
upto 100%. In 
case of claim, 
bonus will be 
reduced by 
50%  of the 
Basic Sum 
Insured at the 
Bonus of 50% of 
the Basic Sum 
Insured for every 
claim free year, 
maximum upto 
100%. In case of 
claim, bonus will be 
reduced by 50%  of 
the Basic Sum 
Insured at the time 
of renewal 
Bonus of 50% of the 
Basic Sum Insured for 
every claim free year, 
maximum upto 100%. 
In case of claim, bonus 
will be reduced by 50%  
of the Basic Sum 
Insured at the time of 
renewal 
Bonus of 50% of 
the Basic Sum 
Insured for every 
claim free year, 
maximum upto 
100%. In case of 
claim, bonus will 
be reduced by 
50%  of the Basic 
Sum Insured at 
the time of 
renewal 

--- PAGE 42 ---

Optima Restore – Policy Wordings               
 
 
  
 
42 
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited. IRDAI Reg. No.146. CIN: U66030MH2007PLC177117. Registered & Corporate Office: 
1st Floor, HDFC House, 165 -166 Backbay Reclamation, H. T. Parekh Marg, Churchgate, Mumbai – 400 020. Trade Logo displayed above 
belongs to HDFC Ltd and ERGO International AG and used by the  Company under license. Optima Restore: HDFHLIP22193V072122        
time of 
renewal 
time of 
renewal