--- PAGE 1 ---

                                                                                                                                                       
                                                                                                                 UIN: ICIHLGP22083V022122 
 
1 
 
 
HEALTH SHIELD 360 
a. Policy Schedule  
 
Policy No.                  Issued at              Stamp Duty  
 
1. Name of the Proposer:  
2. Mailing address of the Proposer: 
3. Contact No. of the Proposer: 
4. Policy Period:   
 Start Date: Time________  Hour__________ 
 End Date: Time________  Hour__________  
5. Period of Insurance 
 Start Date 
 End Date 
 Territorial Scope:  
6. Details of Previous Policy: 
 Previous Policy No.  
 Previous Policy Period 
 Claims (if any) 
Details of the Insured Person(s) under the Policy: 
 
Name of the Insured/s 
 
     
Address for correspondence      
Relationship with the  Proposer 
 
     
Date of Birth MM/DD/YY 
 
     
Date of Joining (DOJ)      
Sex 
 
 
  M / 
  F 
/
  
 
  M/
  F /
T 
 M  / 
  F 
/
  
 M / 
  F /
T 
 M  / 
  F 
/
  
Name of the Nominee      
Relation of the Nominee with the 
Insured 
     
Pre-existing Condition       

--- PAGE 2 ---

                                                                                                                                                       
                                                                                                                 UIN: ICIHLGP22083V022122 
 
2 
 
Special condition: Any ailment 
/Illness, injury, condition or treatment 
or service that is specifically excluded 
in the Policy Schedule under Special 
Conditions  
     
Annual Sum Insured (Rs.)      
Additional Sum Insured (Cumulative 
Bonus) (Rs.) 
     
Sum Insured Protector*      
Voluntary Deductible (Rs.)*      
Voluntary Co-Payment*      
Zone*      
Sub-limit*      
Basic Premium (Rs.)      
Extensions/optional covers**      
 *wherever applicable 
** Extensions/Optional covers availed under the policy. Refer the details of the applicable 
Extensions/Optional covers mentioned in table provided below (Table will be customized as per the 
extension/optional cover opted by the customer) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

--- PAGE 3 ---

                                                                                                                                                       
                                                                                                                 UIN: ICIHLGP22083V022122 
 
3 
 
 
Extensions/Optional covers available under the policy:   
Extension 
no. 
Extensions/Optional covers Premium 
(₹) 
Annual Sum 
Insured (₹) 
1  Road Emergency Ambulance (Worldwide 
including India) 
  
2  
International emergency medical assistance 
(worldwide including India) 
 Air Ambulance 
 Repatriation of Mortal Remains 
  
3  Dependent Accommodation (worldwide including 
India) 
  
4  Convalescence Benefit (worldwide including 
India) 
  
5  Worldwide Additional Sum insured (Cumulative 
bonus) 
  
6  Domestic Road Emergency Ambulance   
7  Air Ambulance   
8  ASI protector   
9  Sum Insured Protector   
10  Claim Protector   
11  Super No claim Bonus   
12  Maternity cover   
13  New born Baby Cover   
14  Out Patient Treatment Cover   
15  Hospital Daily Cash   
16  Convalescence Benefit   
17  Daily cash Benefit for leave from Job   
18  Nursing at Home   
19  Compassionate Visit   
20  Rehabilitation Care   
21  Home health care   
22  Dependent Accommodation   
23  Voluntary Deductible   
24  Voluntary Co-Payment   
25  Zone wise Premium   
26  Sub Limits on illness/ Surgeries / Procedures   
27  Health Checkup   
28  360 Wellbeing Program   
29  Critical illness cover   
30  Personal Accident Cover    
31  Recovery Benefit   
32  Mobility Benefit    
 
7. PREMIUM DETAILS 
Premium Amount (in INR) 
Basic Premium  
Optional covers premium  
Loading (if any)  

--- PAGE 4 ---

                                                                                                                                                       
                                                                                                                 UIN: ICIHLGP22083V022122 
 
4 
 
Discount (if any)  
Premium Instalment Option (if opted)  
GST   
TOTAL PREMIUM   
 
 
Signed for and on behalf of ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company Limited, at ___________ on 
this date  
 
 
Authorized Signatory 
Company Contact Details:  
a) Toll-free number: 1800-2666 
b) Registered Office Address: 
ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company Limited 
ICICI Lombard House 
414, Veer Savarkar Marg, 
Near Siddhi Vinayak Temple, 
Prabhadevi, Mumbai 400025 
 
E-mail: customersupport@icicilombard.com 
 
Agent Details: (Shall be mentioned only for the policy sourced through the registered Agents) 
Agent Name Agent code Agent Contact No. 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In House Claim Processing Details 
Name Complete Address Contact no. 

--- PAGE 5 ---

                                                                                                                                                       
                                                                                                                 UIN: ICIHLGP22083V022122 
 
5 
 
 
 
 
TAX CERTIFICATE 
To, 
Name of the Proposer 
Address of the Proposer  
Subject: Premium certificate for the purpose of deduction under section 80D of Income Tax Act, 1961 
and any amendments made thereafter.  
Dear (Name of the Proposer), 
This is to certify that the Company has received the premium dated dd/mm/yyyy for Health insurance coverage 
under "Health Shield 360" with the following details. 
Proposer’s Name  Policy Number  
Policy Start Date  Policy End Date  
Plan Name  Total Premium Paid 
(₹) 
 
GSTIN Number 
(Customer) 
 GSTIN Reg.No (ICICI 
Lombard) 
 
Servicing Branch 
Name 
 Servicing Branch 
Address 
 
 
Premium 
Details (₹) 
Basic Premium CGST SGST Total Tax Payable Total Premium 
% ₹ % ₹ 
       
 
Financial 
Year 
Amoun
t (₹) 
2020-2021  
2021-2022  
2022-2023  
2023-2024  
2024-2025  
The product is eligible for deduction u/s 80D of the Income Tax, 1961 and any a mendments made 
there to. 
Sincerely, 
For ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company Ltd. 
 


--- PAGE 6 ---

                                                                                                                                                       
                                                                                                                 UIN: ICIHLGP22083V022122 
 
6 
 
Authorised Signatory 
Note:  
 Details of the Policy are as per the Part d,e,f,g of this Policy.  
 This certificate must be surrendered to the Insurance Company in case of Cancellation of the Policy.  
 In the event of incorrect representation of this declaration, the liability shall be upon the proposer.  
 In case You find any variations against Your proposal or any discrepancy in the Policy, please contact Us immediately on the numbers available on 
our website www.icicilombard.com Or call on our toll free no. 1800 2666 
 
 
b) PREAMBLE 
ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company Limited (“We / Us”), having received a Proposal and the 
premium f rom the Proposer named in Part a  of the Policy (hereinafter referred to as the “ Policy 
Schedule”) and the said Proposal and Declaration together with any statement, report or other 
document leading to the issue of this Policy and referred to therein having been accepted and agreed 
to by Us and the Proposer as the basis of this contract do, by this Policy agree, in consideration of and 
subject to the due receipt of the subsequent premiums, as set out in the Policy Schedule, and further, 
subject to the terms and conditions contained i n this Policy that on proof to Our satisfaction of the 
compensation having become payable as set out in the Policy Schedule to the title of the said person 
or persons claiming payment or upon the happening of an event upon which one or more benefits 
become payable under this Policy, the Annual Sum Insured / appropriate benefit amount will be paid by 
Us. 
 
c) DEFINITIONS  
  
For the purposes of this Policy, the terms specified below shall have the meaning set forth wherever 
appearing/specified in this Policy or related Extensions: 
 
Where the context so requires, references to the singular shall also include references to the plural 
and references to any gender shall include references to all genders. Further any references to 
statutory enactment include subsequent changes to the same. 
i. Standard Definitions (Definitions whose wordings are specified by IRDAI) 
 
Accident means a sudden, unforeseen and involuntary event caused by external, visible and violent 
means.  
Any one illness  means continuous Period of illness and it includes relapse within 45 days from the 
date of last consultation with the Hospital/Nursing Home where treatment may have been taken.  
Ayush Hospital is a healthcare facility wherein medical/surgical/para -surgical treatment procedures 
and interventions are carried out by AYUSH Medical practitioner(s) comprising of any of the following:  
a) Central or State government AYUSH hospital; or 
b) Teaching hospital attached to AYUSH college recognized by the central government/Central 
council of Indian medicine/ Central council for Homeopathy; or 
c) AYUSH Hospital, standalone or co -located with in -patient healthcare facility of any 
recognized system of medicine, registered with the local authorities, wherever applicable, 
and is under the supervision of a qualified registered AYUSH medical practitioner and must 
comply with the following criterion: 
i. Having at least 5 in-patient beds 

--- PAGE 7 ---

                                                                                                                                                       
                                                                                                                 UIN: ICIHLGP22083V022122 
 
7 
 
ii. Having qualified AYUSH medical practitioner in charge round the clock 
iii. Having dedicated AYUSH therapy secti ons as required and/or has equipped 
operation theatre where surgical procedures are to be carried out; 
iv. Maintaining daily records of the patients and making them accessible to the 
insurance company’s authorized representative  
 
AYUSH Day Care Centre  means and includes Community Health Centre (CHC), Primary Health 
Centre (PHC), Dispensary, Clinic, Polyclinic or any such health centre which is registered with the 
local authorities, wherever applicable and having facilities for carrying out treatment pr ocedures and 
medical or surgical/para -surgical interventions or both under the supervision of registered AYUSH 
Medical Practitioner (s) on day care basis without in - patient services and must comply with all the 
following criterion: 
a) Having qualified registered AYUSH Medical Practitioner(s) in charge; 
b) Having dedicated AYUSH therapy sections as required and/or has equipped operation 
theatre where surgical procedures are to be carried out; 
c) Maintaining daily records of the patients and making them accessible to  the insurance 
company’s authorized representative. 
 
Cashless Facility means a facility extended by the insurer to the insured where the payments, of the 
costs of treatment undergone by the insured in accordance with the policy terms and conditions, are 
directly made to the network provider by the insurer to the extent pre-authorization approved. 
Condition Precedent shall mean a policy term or condition upon which the Insurer's liability under the 
policy is conditional upon. 
Congenital Anomaly refers to a condition(s) which is present since birth, and which is abnormal with 
reference to form, structure or position. 
a) Internal Congenital Anomaly -Congenital anomaly which is not in the visible and accessible 
parts of the body  
b) External Congenital Anomaly - Congenital anomaly which is in the visible and accessible 
parts of the body  
 
Co-payment means a cost sharing requirement under a health insurance policy that provides that the 
policyholder/insured/proposer will bear a specified percentage of the admissibl e claims amount. A co -
payment does not reduce the Sum Insured. 
Cumulative Bonus shall mean any increase or addition in the Sum Insured granted by the insurer 
without an associated increase in premium. 
Day care centre means any institution established for day care treatment of illness and/or injuries or a 
medical setup with a hospital and which has been registered with the local authorities, wherever 
applicable, and is under supervision of a registered and qualified medical practitioner AND must comply 
with all minimum criterion as under – 
a) has qualified nursing staff under its employment; 
b) has qualified medical practitioner/s in charge  
c) has fully equipped operation theatre of its own where surgical procedures are carried out;  
d) maintains daily records of patients and will make these accessible to the insurance 
company’s authorized personnel 
 
 

--- PAGE 8 ---

                                                                                                                                                       
                                                                                                                 UIN: ICIHLGP22083V022122 
 
8 
 
Day Care Treatment refers to medical treatment, and/or Surgical Procedure which is  
a) Undertaken under General or Local Anaesthesia in a Hospital/Day care centre in less than 24 
hours. because of technological advancement, and  
b) Which would have otherwise required a hospitalisation of more than 24 hours.  
Treatment normally taken on an out-patient basis is not included in the scope of this definition. 
 
Deductible means a c ost sharing requirement under a health insurance policy that provides that the 
insurer will not be liable for a specified rupee amount in case of indemnity policies and for a specified 
number of days/hours in case of hospital cash policies which will apply before any benefits are payable 
by the insurer. A deductible does not reduce the Sum Insured. 
 
Dental treatment  means a treatment related to teeth or structures supporting teeth including 
examinations, fillings (where appropriate), crowns, extractions and surgery 
 
Disclosure to information Norm the policy shall be void and all premium paid thereon shall be forfeited 
to the Company in the event of misrepresentation, mis -description or non -disclosure of any material 
fact. 
 
Domiciliary Hospitalisation means medical treatment for an illness/disease/injury which in the normal 
course would require care and treatment at a hospital but is actually taken while confined at home under 
any of the following circumstances: 
a) the condition of the patient is such that he/she is not in a condition to be removed to a hospital, 
or  
b) the patient takes treatment at home on account of non-availability of room in a hospital. 
 
Emergency Care means management for an illness or injury which results in symptoms which occur 
suddenly and unexpectedly, and requires immediate care by a medical practitioner to prevent death or 
serious long term impairment of the insured person’s health 
Grace Period means the specified period of time immediately following the premium due date during 
which a payment can be made to renew or continue a policy in force without loss of continuity benefits 
such as waiting periods and coverage of pre-existing diseases. Coverage is not available for the period 
for which no premium is received. 
 
Hospital means any institution established for in-patient care and day care treatment of illness and/or 
injuries and which has been regis tered as a hospital with the local authorities under Clinical 
Establishments (Registration and Regulation) Act 2010 or under enactments specified under the 
Schedule of Section 56(1) of the said act Or complies with all minimum criteria as under:  
 
i) has qualified nursing staff under its employment round the clock;  
ii) has at least 10 in-patient beds in towns having a population of less than 10,00,000 and at least 
15 in-patient beds in all other places;  
iii) has qualified medical practitioner(s) in charge round the clock;  
iv) has a fully equipped operation theatre of its own where surgical procedures are carried out;  
v) maintains daily records of patients and makes these accessible to the insurance comp any’s 
authorized personnel  
 

--- PAGE 9 ---

                                                                                                                                                       
                                                                                                                 UIN: ICIHLGP22083V022122 
 
9 
 
Hospitalisation means admission in a Hospital for a minimum period of 24 consecutive ‘In-patient 
Care’ hours except for specified procedures/ treatments, where such admission could be for a period 
of less than 24 consecutive hours 
Illness means a sickness or a disease or pathological condition leading to the impairment of normal 
physiological function and requires medical treatment.  
 
(a) Acute condition - Acute condition is a disease, illness or injury that is likely to respo nd quickly to 
treatment which aims to return the person to his or her state of health immediately before suffering the 
disease/ illness/ injury which leads to full recovery  
 
(b) Chronic condition - A chronic condition is defined as a disease, illness, or injury that has one or 
more of the following characteristics:  
1. it needs ongoing or long -term monitoring through consultations, examinations, check -ups, and /or 
tests  
2. it needs ongoing or long-term control or relief of symptoms  
3. it requires rehabilitation for the patient or for the patient to be specially trained to cope with it  
4. it continues indefinitely  
5. it recurs or is likely to recur  
 
Injury means any accidental physical bodily harm, excluding illness or disease sole ly and directly 
caused by external, violent, visible and evident means which is verified and certified by a Medical 
Practitioner. 
Inpatient care means treatment for which the insured person has to stay in a Hospital for more than 
24 hours for a covered event. 
Intensive Care Unit means an identified section, ward or wing of a hospital which is under the constant 
supervision of a dedicated medical practitioner(s), and which is specially equipped for the continuous 
monitoring and treatment of patients who are in a critical condition, or require life support facilities and 
where the level of care and supervision is considerably more sophisticated and intensive than in the 
ordinary and other wards. 
ICU (Intensive Care Unit) Charges means the amount charged by a Hospital towards ICU expenses 
which shall include the expenses for ICU bed, general medical support services provided to any ICU 
patient including monitoring devices, critical care nursing and intensivist charges. 
Maternity expenses shall 
a) include medical treatment expenses traceable to childbirth (including complicated deliveries 
and caesarean sections incurred during Hospitalisation);  
b) expenses towards lawful medical termination of pregnancy during the policy period  
 
Medical Advice means any consultation or advice from a Medical Practitioner including the issuance 
of any prescription or repeat prescription. 
Medical Expenses  means those expenses that an Insured Person has necessarily and actually 
incurred for medical treatment on account of Illness or Accident on the advice of a Medical Practitioner, 
as long as these are no more than would have been payable if the Insured Person had not been insured 
and no more than other hospitals or doctors in the same locality would have char ged for the same 
medical treatment. 
Medically Necessary Treatment  is defined as any treatment, tests medication or stay in hospital or 
part of a stay in Hospital which  
a) Is required for the medical management of the illness or Injury suffered by the insured  

--- PAGE 10 ---

                                                                                                                                                       
                                                                                                                 UIN: ICIHLGP22083V022122 
 
10 
 
b) Must not exceed the level of care necessary to provide safe, adequate and appropriate 
medical care in scope, duration or intensity 
c) Must have been prescribed by a Medical practitioner 
d) Must conform to the professional standard widely accepted in internation al medical practice 
or by the medical community in India 
 
 
 
Network Provider means hospitals or health care providers enlisted by an insurer, TPA or jointly by an 
insurer and TPA to provide medical services to an insured by a cashless facility.  
Newborn Baby means baby born during the Policy Period and is aged upto 90 days. 
Non- Network Provider means any Hospital, day care centre or other provider that is not part of the 
Network. 
Notification of claim means the process of intimating a claim to the insurer or TPA through any of the 
recognized modes of communication  
OPD treatment  is one in which the Insured visits a clinic / hospital or associated facility like a 
consultation room for diagnosis and treatment based on the advice of a Medical Practitioner. The 
Insured is not admitted as a day care or in-patient. 
Pre-existing Disease means any condition, ailment, injury or disease  
a) That is/ are diagnosed by a physician within 48 months prior to the effective date of the policy 
issued by the insurer or it’s reinstatement 
b) For which medical advice or treatment was recommended by, or received from, a physician 
within 48 months prior to the effective date of the policy or its reinstatement.  
 
Post-Hospitalisation Medical Expenses means medical expenses incurred during predefined number 
of days immediately after the Insured Person is discharged from the hospital, provided that:  
a) Such Medical Expenses are for the same condition for which the Insured Person’s 
Hospitalisation was required, and 
b) The In-patient Hospitalisation claim for such Hospitalisation is admissible by the Insurance 
Company. 
 
Pre-Hospitalisation Medical Expenses means medical expenses incurred during predefined number 
of days preceding the hospitalization of the insured person, provided that: :  
a) Such Medical Expenses are incurred for the same condition for which the     Insured Person’s 
Hospitalisation was required, and  
b) The In-patient Hospitalisation claim for such Hospitalisation is admissible by the Insurance 
Company. 
 
Qualified Nurse is a person who hold s a valid registration from the Nursing Council of India or the 
Nursing Council of any state in India. 
Reasonable and Customary Charges means the charges for services or supplies, which are the 
standard charges for the specific provider and consistent with the prevailing charges in the geographical 
area for identical or similar services, taking into account the nature of Illness/injury involved.  

--- PAGE 11 ---

                                                                                                                                                       
                                                                                                                 UIN: ICIHLGP22083V022122 
 
11 
 
Renewal defines the terms on which the contract of insurance can be renewed on mutual consent with 
a provision of grace period for treating the renewal continuous for the purpose of gaining credit for pre-
existing diseases, time-bound exclusions and for all waiting periods. 
Room Rent means the amount charged by a hospital towards Room and Boarding expenses and shall 
include associated medical expenses. 
Surgery or Surgical Procedure means manual and/or operative procedure (s) required for treatment 
of an illness or injury, correction o f deformities and defects, diagnosis and cure of diseases, relief of 
suffering or prolongation of life, performed in a hospital or day care centre by a Medical Practitioner  
 
Unproven/Experimental treatment means treatment including drug experimental therapy which is not 
based on established medical practice in India, is treatment experimental or unproven. 
Migration means the right accorded to health insurance policyholders/proposers (including all 
members u nder family cover and members of group Health insurance policy), to transfer the credit 
gained for pre-existing conditions and time bound exclusions, with the same insurer. 
Portability means the right accorded to an individual health insurance policyhold er/proposers 
(including all members under family cover), to transfer the credit gained for pre-existing conditions and 
time bound exclusions, from one insurer to another insurer 
 
ii. Specific Definitions (Definitions other than those mentioned under c(i) above) 
 
 
Admission means Your admission in a Hospital as an inpatient for the purpose of medical treatment 
of an Injury and/or Illness. 
 
AYUSH treatments refers to the medical aid and / or hospitalisation treatments given under ‘Ayurveda, 
Yoga and Naturopathy, Unani, Siddha and Homeopathy systems 
 
Annual Sum Insured means and denotes the maximum amount of cover available to You during each 
Policy Year of the Policy Period, as stated in the Policy Schedule or any revisions thereof based on 
Claim(s) settled under the Policy. 
 
Associated Medical Expenses  means medical expenses such as Professional fees, OT charges, 
Procedure charges, etc., which vary based on the room category occupied by the insured person whilst 
undergoing treatment in some of the hospitals. If Policy Holder chooses a higher room category above 
the eligibility defined in policy, then proportionate deduction will apply on the Associated Medical 
Expenses in addition to the difference in room rent. Such associated medical expenses do not include 
Cost of pharmacy and consumables, Cost of implants and medical devices and Cost of diagnostics . 
Proportionate deduction shall not be applicable to “ICU charges” also. 
 
 
Break in Policy occurs at the end of the existing policy term, when the premium due for  renewal on a 
given policy is not paid on or before the premium renewal date or within 30 days thereof.  
 


--- PAGE 12 ---

                                                                                                                                                       
                                                                                                                 UIN: ICIHLGP22083V022122 
 
12 
 
Contribution is essentially the right of an insurer to call upon other insurers, liable to the same insured, 
to share the cost of an indemnity claim on  a rateable proportion of Sum Insured. This clause shall not 
apply to any Benefit offered on fixed benefit basis. 
 
Claim means a demand made by You or on Your behalf for payment of Medical Expenses or any other 
expenses or benefits, as covered under the Policy. 
 
Immediate Family means spouse, dependent children, brother(s), sister(s) and dependent parent(s) , 
Parents-in-law, Son-in-law, Daughter-in-law of the insured. 
 
Insured/Insured Person(s)   means the individual(s) whose name(s) is/are specifically appearing as 
such in the Policy Schedule and is/are hereinafter referred as “You”/“Your”/ “Yours”/ “Yourself” 
Maximum limit of indemnity means the sum total of annual sum insured, additional sum i nsured (if 
any) and super no claim bonus (if opted and accrued by the insured) , Sum insured protector (if opted 
by insured)                                                                       
Medical Practitioner is a person who holds a valid registratio n from the Medical Council of any State 
or Medical Council of India or Council for Indian Medicine or for Homeopathy set up by the Government 
of India or a State Government and is thereby entitled to practice medicine within its jurisdiction; and is 
acting within the scope and jurisdiction of his license. 
The term Medical Practitioner would include physician, specialist, anaesthetist and surgeon but would 
exclude You and Your spouse, Your children, Your brother(s), Your sister(s) and Your parent(s).  
For the purposes of worldwide cover, Medical practitioner would mean a person who holds a valid 
registration from the Medical council of the respective country where the treatment  is being taken by 
the insured  
Life threatening medical conditions  means a medic al condition suffered by the insured member 
which has following characteristics 
a) Unstable vital parameters (blood pressure, pulse, temperature and respiratory rate)  
b) Acute impairment of one or more vital organ system (involving heart, brain, lungs, liv er, kidney and 
pancreas or) 
c) Critical care being provided, which involves high complexity decision making to assess manipulate 
and support vital organ failures and requires interpretation of multiple physiological parameters and 
application of advanced technology or 
d) Critical care being provided in critical care area such as coronary care unit, intensive care unit, 
respiratory care unit or the emergency department, and certified by the attending medical practitioner 
as a life threatening condition. 
Period of Insurance means the period as specifically appearing in the Policy Schedule and 
commencing from the Policy Period Start Date of the first Policy taken by You from Us and then, running 
concurrent to Your current Policy subject to the Your continuous renewal of such Policy with Us.  
Policy means these Policy wordings, the Policy Schedule and any applicable endorsements or 
extensions attaching to or forming part thereof. The Policy contains details of the extent of cover 
available to You, what is exclude d from the cover and the terms & conditions on whic h the Policy is 
issued to You.  
Proposer means the person(s) or the entity named in the Policy Schedule who executed the Policy 
Schedule and is (are) responsible for payment of premium(s). 

--- PAGE 13 ---

                                                                                                                                                       
                                                                                                                 UIN: ICIHLGP22083V022122 
 
13 
 
Policy Period means the period commencing from the Policy Period Start Date, Time and ending at 
the Policy Period End Date, Time of the Policy and as specifically appearing in the Policy Schedule. 
Policy Year means a period of twelve months beginning from the Policy Perio d Start Date and ending 
on the last day of such twelve -month period. For the purpose of subsequent years, “Policy Year” shall 
mean a period of twelve months beginning from the end of the previous Policy Year and lapsing on the 
last day of such twelve-month period, till the Policy Period End Date, as specified in the Policy Schedule 
Service Provider means any person, organization, institution, or company that has been empanelled 
with Us to provide services specified under the Benefits (including add -ons) to The Insured person. 
These shall also include all healthcare providers empanelled to form a part  of network other than 
hospitals.   
The list of the Service Providers is available on our digital platform and is subject to amendment from 
time to time. 
 
 
You/Your/ Yours/ Yourself  means the person(s) that We insure and is/are specifically named as 
Insured / Insured Person(s) in the Policy Schedule. 
 
We/ Our/ Ours/ Us means the ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company Limited 
 
d) Benefits Covered Under the Policy 
This Policy is a contract of insurance between the Policyholder and Us which is subject to the receipt 
of premium against each Benefit in full (first instalment in case the customer has opted for Periodic 
Premium Payment option) in respect of the Insured P ersons and the terms, conditions and exclusions 
of this Policy.  
Claims made in respect of an Insured Person for any Benefit applicable to the Insured Person shall be 
subject to the availability of the Annual Sum Insured, applicable sub-limits (if any) and/or deductible (if 
any),and /or Co-payment(if any) for the Benefit claimed as specified in the Policy Schedule/Certificate 
and the terms, conditions and exclusions of this Policy.  
All claims shall be made in accordance with the procedures set out in t his Policy. Admitted claims will 
be payable to the Insured Person or the Nominee (as applicable). 
 
A. Base Covers (Mandatory) 
1 Hospitalization Expenses 
We hereby agree subject to terms, conditions and exclusions herein contained or otherwise 
expressed hereon that, if during the Policy Year, You require minimum 24 hours Hospitalisation 
for any Illness or Injury on the written advice of a Medical Practition er, then We  will cover the 
Medical Expenses so incurred by you for, 
 
i. Room Rent, Boarding, Nursing Expenses as provided by the Hospital / Nursing Home.  
ii. Intensive Care Unit (ICU) / Intensive Cardiac Care Unit (ICCU) expenses  
iii. Surgeon, Anesthetist, Medical Practitioner, Consultants, Specialist Fees whether paid 
directly to the treating doctor / surgeon or to the hospital  

--- PAGE 14 ---

                                                                                                                                                       
                                                                                                                 UIN: ICIHLGP22083V022122 
 
14 
 
iv. Anesthesia, blood, oxygen, operation theatre charges, surgical appliances, medicines and 
drugs, costs towards diagnostics, diagnostic imaging modalities and such similar other 
expenses. 
 
In case the group has opted for room rent capping the same shall be applicable to room rent of 
a hospital room, ICU/ICCU and will be specified in policy schedule /Key Infor mation Sheet  
against the benefit. 
If the insured chooses a higher room category than the category that is eligible as per terms and 
conditions of the policy then the insured person shall bear the rateable proportion of the total 
associated medical expenses. However, proportionate deductions shall not be applied in respect 
of the hospitals which do not follow differential billing or for those expenses in respect of which 
differential billing is not adopted based on the room category. 
 
However, our total liability under this Policy for payment of any and all Claims in aggregate during 
each Policy Year of the Policy Period shall not exceed the Maximum Limit of Indemnity as stated 
in the Policy Schedule. 
 
2 Day Care Treatment /Surgeries 
We hereby agree subject to terms, conditions and exclusions herein contained or otherwise 
expressed hereon that, if during the Policy Year, You require Hospitalisation as an inpatient for 
less than 24 hours in a Hospital (but not in the outpatient department of a Hospital) on the written 
advice of a Medical Practitioner, then  We will pay You for the Medical Expenses incurred for 
undergoing such Day Care Procedure/Treatment or surgery. 
 
However, Our total liability under this cover for payment of any and all Claims in aggregate during 
each Policy Year of the Policy Period shall not exceed the Maximum Limit of Indemnity as stated 
in the Policy Schedule. 
 
 
3 Pre-Hospitalisation and Post-Hospitalisation Expenses 
We hereby agree subject to the terms, conditions and exclusions herein contained or otherwise 
expressed hereon that, we will compensate you for the relevant Medical Expenses incurred by 
you in relation to: 
 
 Pre-hospitalisation Medical Expenses incurred by You for a period immediately  prior to Your 
Hospitalisation as specified against this benefit in the policy schedule /Key Information Sheet  
and 
 
 Post-hospitalisation Medical Expenses incurred by You for a period immediately post 
Hospitalisation, as specified against this benefit in the policy schedule /Key Information Sheet, 
provided that Your Hospitalisation falls within the Policy Year and  
 
We have accepted Your Claim under “In-patient Treatment” or “Day Care Procedures” section 
of the Policy. 
 
 
4 In Patient AYUSH Hospitalisation 
We will cover expenses for AYUSH treatment only when the treatment has been undergone in 
an AYUSH Hospital or AYUSH day care centre. We will not cover expenses for hospitalisation 


--- PAGE 15 ---

                                                                                                                                                       
                                                                                                                 UIN: ICIHLGP22083V022122 
 
15 
 
done for evaluation or investigation only. Treatment taken at a healthcare facility which is not a 
Hospital are also excluded. 
 
However, our total liability under this Policy for payment of any and all Claims in aggregate 
during each Policy Year of the Policy Period shall not exceed the Maximum Limit of Indemnity 
as stated in the Policy Schedule 
 
5 Unlimited Reset Benefit  
Reset will be available unlimited times in a policy year in case the annual Sum insured including 
accrued Additional Sum Insured (if any) and Super No Claim Bonus (if any),  Sum insured 
protector(if any) is insufficient as a result of previous claims in that policy year, provided that:  
 The total amount of reset will not exceed the Annual Sum Insured for that policy year  
 The reset amount can only be used for all future claims within the same policy year  
 The claim will be admissible under the reset only if the claim is admissible as per terms and 
conditions of the base policy 
 Reset will not trigger for the first claim 
 For individual policies, reset Sum Insured will be available on individual basis whereas fo r 
floater policies, it will be available on floater basis 
 Any unutilized reset Sum Insured will not be carried forward to subsequent policy year  
 The reset amount can only be used for all future claims within the same policy year, not 
related to the illness/ disease/ injury for which a claim has been paid in that policy year for 
the same person. 
 For any single claim during a policy year, the maximum claim amount payable shall not 
exceed the sum of  
o The Annual Sum Insured,  
o Additional Sum Insured, and  
o Super No claim Bonus (If opted and accrued) 
o Sum insured protector (If opted and accrued)) 
 During a Policy Year, the aggregate claim amount payable, shall not exceed the sum of:  
o The Annual Sum Insured 
o Additional Sum Insured 
o Super No claim Bonus(if opted and accrued) 
o Sum insured Protector(if opted and accrued) 
 
6 Additional Sum Insured (Cumulative Bonus) 
At the time of renewal of this Policy, We will provide an additional sum insured (hereinafter 
referred to as “Additional Sum Insured”) of 10% of annual sum insured of immediately preceding 
policy year subject to a maximum of 100%  provided that there is no C laim under this Policy 
during the Policy Year except as an Out-patient (If opted).  
However, in the event of a Claim under the Policy during any subsequent Policy Year, the 
accrued Additional Sum Insured will be reduced by 10% of the Annual Sum Insured at the time 
of renewal of this Policy.  
 In relation to a Floater Benefit cover, the Additional Sum Insured so accrued during the 
Claim-free Policy Year(s) will also be on floater basis and will only be available to those 
Insured Person(s) who were insured in such Claim-free Policy Year(s) and continue to be 
insured in the subsequent Policy Year(s). 
 If the Insured Persons in the expiring policy are covered on an individual basis as specified 
in the Policy Schedule and there is an accumulated Cumulative Bonus for each Insured 

--- PAGE 16 ---

                                                                                                                                                       
                                                                                                                 UIN: ICIHLGP22083V022122 
 
16 
 
Person under the expiring policy, and such expiring policy has been Renewed w ith Us on 
a floater policy basis as specified in the Policy Schedule then the Cumulative Bonus to be 
carried forward for credit in such Renewed Policy shall be the lowest among all the Insured 
Persons. 
 In case of floater policies where Insured Persons Rene w their expiring policy with Us by 
splitting the Sum Insured in to two or more floater p olicies/individual policies or in cases 
where the policy is split due to the child attaining the age of 21 years, the Cumulative 
Bonus of the expiring policy shall be a pportioned to such Renewed Policies in the 
proportion of the Sum Insured of each Renewed Policy. 
 If the Sum Insured has been reduced at the time of Renewal, the applicable Cumulative 
Bonus shall be reduced in the same proportion to the Sum Insured. 
 If the Sum Insured under the Policy has been increased at the time of Renewal the 
Cumulative Bonus shall be calculated on the Sum Insured of the last completed Policy 
Year 
 Additional Sum Insured accrued can be utilized only for Inpatient hospitalization, day care 
treatment and surgeries, pre and post hospitalization expenses, Inpatient AYUSH 
hospitalization, domiciliary hospitalization and donor expenses. 
 Any Additional sum insured (Cumulative bonus) accrued can be utilized  within the 
geographical boundaries of India.  
 
7 Donor Expenses 
We will cover you up to the annual sum insured for the Medical Expenses incurred in respect 
of the donor for any of the organ transplant surgery, provided the organ donated is for your use 
and the organ donor is an eligible donor in  accordance with “The transplantation of Human 
Organ Act”. We have admitted the In-patient Hospitalization Claim under the base plan 
We shall not be liable to pay for any claim under this Benefit which arises directly or indirectly 
for or in connection with any of the following: 
i. Pre-hospitalization Medical Expenses or Post-hospitalization Medical Expenses 
of the organ donor. 
ii. Screening expenses of the organ donor. 
iii. Any other Medical Expenses as a result of the harvesting from the organ donor.  
iv. Costs directly or indirectly associated with the acquisition of the donor’s organ. 
v. Transplant of any organ/tissue where the transplant is experimental or 
investigational. 
vi. Expenses related to organ transportation or preservation. 
vii. Expenses incurred by Insured as a donor. 
viii. Any other medical treatment or complication in respect of the donor, consequent 
to harvesting. 
 
8 Domiciliary Hospitalization 
We will cover the Medical Expenses incurred in respect of Your  Domiciliary Hospitalization  
during the Policy Period provided that: 
i. The Domiciliary Hospitalization is for Medically Necessary Treatment.  
ii. The Domiciliary Hospitalization commences and continues on the written advice of 
a Medical Practitioner. 
iii. The Medical Expenses incurred are Reasonable and Customary Charges.  

--- PAGE 17 ---

                                                                                                                                                       
                                                                                                                 UIN: ICIHLGP22083V022122 
 
17 
 
iv. The Domiciliary Hospitalization continues for at least 3 consecutive days in which 
case we will make payment under this Benefit in respect of Medical Expenses 
incurred from the first day of Domiciliary Hospitalization. 
v. Any Medical Expenses payable shall not in ag gregate exceed the maximum limit 
of indemnity. 
 
We shall not be liable to pay for any claim under this Benefit which arises directly or indirectly 
from or in connection with any of the following 
a) Asthma, bronchitis, tonsillitis and upper respiratory tract i nfection including 
laryngitis and pharyngitis, cough and cold, influenza; 
b) Arthritis, gout and rheumatism;  
c) Ailments of spine/disc 
d) Chronic nephritis and nephritic syndrome; 
e) Any liver disease; 
f) Peptic ulcer 
g) Diarrhea and all type of dysenteries, including gastroenteritis; 
h) Diabetes mellitus and insipidus; 
i) Epilepsy; 
j) Hypertension; 
k) Pyrexia of any origin 
 
   B     Base Cover (Optional)  
          Worldwide cover Including India (Hospitalization cover) 
We will cover you for hospitalisation expenses including planned hospitalisation, incurred within 
India and anywhere across the world including USA and Canada, up to the amount specified 
against this benefit in the policy schedule /Key Information Sheet  subject to the terms & 
conditions specified hereunder: 
i. A co-pay of 10% will be applied to every admissible claim over and above to any other 
co-pay levied, if the treatment is taken outside India 
ii. The benefit is available for 45 consecutive days from the date of travel in a single trip 
and 90 days in a cumulative basis as a whole in a Policy year. 
iii. The expenses covered under this benefit shall be limited to Inpatient hospitalization 
expenses, days care treatment/ procedure expenses only.  
iv. Expenses incurred for pre and post hospitalization will be covered as specified 
(number of days) in the policy schedule. 
v. Coverage/benefit associated with Section A B ase covers _(Mandatory) i.e. 
domiciliary hospitalization, Donor expenses, In -patient AYUSH, unlimited reset and 
Additional sum insured (cumulative bonus) will be applicable only w ithin the 
geographical boundaries of India. 
vi. We will also cover the expenses associated with the initial treatment plan for 
reconstructive surgery and surgical implants (excluding dental), provided the same is 
carried out to restore the function after an accident and the surgery is performed at a 
medically appropriate stage after the accident. 
vii. The benefit is available as cashless facility through a pre-authorization by our service 
provider subject to availability in the region of loss, as well as reimburseme nt basis 
through us. However in case of planned hospitalisation it is mandatory for the 
customers to seek our approval before undertaking the trip  

--- PAGE 18 ---

                                                                                                                                                       
                                                                                                                 UIN: ICIHLGP22083V022122 
 
18 
 
viii. The payment of any claim under this benefit will be based on the rate of exchange as 
on Date of Loss publish ed by Reserve Bank of India (RBI) and shall be used for 
conversion of Foreign Currency into Indian rupees for payment of claims. If on the 
insured person’s date of loss, if the RBI rates are not published, the exchange rates 
published next shall be considered for conversion. 
 
Note: The scope of this cover extends to worldwide including India, USA and Canada and the Maximum 
limit of indemnity would be restricted to the Annual Sum insured for claims within and outside India , in 
aggregate. 
Extension 1 to 5 will be available only when the Base cover (optional) “Worldwide Including India 
(Hospitalization cover)” is opted by the group. Rest of the extensions/optional covers can also be opted 
along with it, but the utilization will be limited within the geographical boundaries of India. 
 
C. Extension/Optional Covers 
The Benefits listed below shall be available to the Insured Person only if the requisite additional 
premium has been received by us and the Benefit is specified to be in force for that Insured Person 
in the Policy Schedule /Key Information Sheet . Benefits under this Section are subject to the terms, 
conditions, waiting periods and exclusions of this Policy and in accordance with the applicable Plan 
as specified in the Policy. 
 
1 Road Emergency Ambulance (worldwide including India) 
In consideration of the payment of additional premium to Us  it is hereby declared and agreed 
to cover the expenses incurred on road ambulance services which are offered by a healthcare 
or ambulance service provider and which have been used during the Policy Period to transfer 
the Insured Person to the nearest Hospital with adequate emergency facilities for the provision 
of Emergency Care, provided that: 
a) Our maximum liability under this Benefit f or every claim arising during the Policy 
Year will be restricte d to the amount (per hospitalization) specified against this 
benefit in the policy schedule/Key Information Sheet. 
b) We have accepted a claim under worldwide cover including India (hospitalizatio n 
cover) in respect to you for the same Accident/Illness for which road ambulance 
services were availed. 
c) This Benefit includes and is limited to the cost of the transportation of the Insured 
Person:  
I. To the nearest Hospital with higher medical facilities which is prepared to 
admit you and provide the necessary medical services if such medical 
services cannot satisfactorily be provided at a Hospital where you are 
situated, and only if that transportation has been prescribed in writing by a 
Medical Practitioner and is for Medically Necessary Treatment. 
II. From a Hospital to the nearest diagnostic centre during the course of 
Hospitalization for advanced diagnostic treatment in circumstances where 
such facility is not available in the existing Hospital. 
III. From one h ospital to another hospital for the purpose of providing better 
medical support to the insured during an emergency 
d) The ambulance / service provider providing the services be a registered provider 
with road traffic authority. 

--- PAGE 19 ---

                                                                                                                                                       
                                                                                                                 UIN: ICIHLGP22083V022122 
 
19 
 
Any expenses in relation to transportation of you from Hospital to the your residence while 
transferring you after you been discharged from the Hospital are not payable under this 
Benefit 
Note: On opting this extension, the scope of cover extends to worldwide including India, USA and  
Canada and the maximum limit of Indemnity would be restricted to the amount as specified against this 
benefit for claims within and outside India, in aggregate.  
2 International Emergency Medical Assistance (worldwide including India): 
a)  Air Ambulance 
In consideration of the payment of additional premium to Us , We will cover the expenses 
incurred on air ambulance services in respect to you which are offered by a healthcare or 
an air ambulance service provider and which have been used during the Policy Peri od to 
transfer the Insured Person to the nearest Hospital with adequate emergency facilities for 
the provision of Emergency Care, provided that:  
 
I. Our maximum liability under this Benefit for any and all claims arising during the Policy 
Year will be restricted to the Sum insured as stated in the Policy Schedule /Key 
Information Sheet; 
II. It is for a life threatening emergency health condition/s which requires immediate and 
rapid ambulance transportation from the place where you are situated at the time of  
requiring Emergency Care to a hospital provided that the transportation is for Medically 
Necessary Treatment, is certified in writing by a Medical Practitioner, and road 
ambulance services cannot be provided. 
III. Such air ambulance providing the services, should be duly licensed to operate as such 
by a competent government Authority. 
IV. This cover is limited to transportation from the area of emergency to the nearest 
Hospital only;  
V. We will not cover: 
  Any transportation from one Hospital to another; 
 Any transportation of yours from Hospital to your residence after you have been 
discharged from the Hospital  
 Any transportation between two countries. 
VI. We have accepted a claim under worldwide cover hospitalization in respect to you for 
the same Accident/Illness for which air ambulance services were availed.  
 
We shall not be liable if Medically Necessary Treatment can be provided at the Hospital 
where you are situated at the time of requiring Emergency Care. 
 
b) Repatriation of Mortal Remains: In the event of the death of the insured person 
oversea/abroad we will pay/reimburse the policyholder up to the amount specified in the 
policy schedule/Key Information Sheet against this benefit for the cost incurred towards the 
return of the mortal remains of the insured person to his/her place of residence in India.  
 
Documents to be submitted: 
 Death certificate of the deceased providing the details of the place, time, 
circumstances and cause of death 
 Post-mortem certificate, if conducted  
 Supporting bills and payment receipts need to be submitted 
 

--- PAGE 20 ---

                                                                                                                                                       
                                                                                                                 UIN: ICIHLGP22083V022122 
 
20 
 
Note: On opting this extension, the scope of cover extends to worldwide including India, USA and 
Canada and the maximum limit of Indemnity would be restricted to the amount as specified against this 
benefit for claims within and outside India, in aggregate. 
 
3 Dependent Accommodation (Worldwide including India): 
In consideration of additional premium to us, If you contract an Illness or suffer an Injury due to 
Accident during the Policy Period and which solely and directly requires you to be Hospitalized, 
We will pay the daily amount for the accommodation of the dependent in the hospital only as 
specified in the Policy Schedule /Key Information Sheet  against this benefit in respect of each 
continuous and completed day of Hospitalization of the Insured Person. 
 
For the purpose of this Extension, Dependent means immediate family members  
 
Provided: 
a) We have accepted the claim under the worldwide cover  in respect to you for the same 
Accident/Illness. 
b) The Hospitalization is for Medically Necessary Treatment and is commenced and continued 
on the written advice of the treating Medical Practitioner. 
c) The medical practitioner certifies that the hospitalised insured member required 
hospitalization of minimum 3 consecutive days, maximum up to 10 days 
d) We will pay for one immediate family member. 
 
Note: On opting this extension, the scope of cover extends to worldwide including India, USA and 
Canada and the maximum limit of Indemnity would be restricted to the amount as specified against this 
benefit for claims within and outside India, in aggregate. 
 
4 Convalescence Benefit (Worldwide including India): 
In consideration of the payme nt of additional premium to us. We will pay you an amount as 
specified against this benefit in the policy schedule /Key Information Sheet . If  you are 
hospitalized under worldwide cover including India (Hospitalization cover) for a minimum period 
of 10 consecutive days, due to any Injury or Illness as covered under the Policy. This benefit is 
payable only once to an Insured Person during each Policy Year of the Policy Period.  
 
Note: On opting this extension, the scope of cover extends to worldwide including India, USA and 
Canada and the maximum limit of Indemnity would be restricted to the amount as specified against this 
benefit for claims within and outside India, in aggregate. 
 
5 Worldwide Additional Sum Insured (Cumulative Bonus): 
In consideration of payment of additional premium to us, Additional sum insured accrued by 
You under section A.6 Additional sum insured (Cumulative Bonus) can be utilized by you 
outside the geographical boundaries of India . The Additional Sum Insured  accrued can be 
utilized only for Inpatient hospitalization, day care treatment and surgeries and pr e and po st 
hospitalization expenses. 
 
6 Domestic Road Emergency Ambulance Cover 
In consideration of the payment of additional premium to Us  it is hereby declared and agreed 
to cover the expenses incurred on road ambulance services which are offered by a healthcare 

--- PAGE 21 ---

                                                                                                                                                       
                                                                                                                 UIN: ICIHLGP22083V022122 
 
21 
 
or ambulance service provider and which have been used during the Policy Period to transfer 
you to the nearest Hospital with adequate emergency facilities for the prov ision of Emergency 
Care, provided that: 
e) Our maximum liability under this Benefit for every claim arising during the Polic y Year 
will be restricted to the amount (per hospitalization  event) as specified against this 
benefit in the policy schedule/Key Information Sheet. 
f) We have acce pted a claim under hospitalization expenses in respect to you for the 
same Accident/Illness for which road ambulance services were availed. 
g) This Benefit includes and is limited to the cost of the transportation of the you: 
 
i. To the nearest Hospital with higher medical facilitie s which is prepared to admit 
you and provide the necessary medical services if such medical services cannot 
satisfactorily be provided at a Hospital where you are situated, and only if that 
transportation has been prescribed in writing by a Medical Practitioner and is for 
Medically Necessary Treatment. 
ii. From a Hospital to the nearest diagnostic centre during the course of 
Hospitalization for advanced diagnostic treatment in circumstances where such 
facility is not available in the existing Hospital. 
iii. From one hospital to another hospital for the purpose of providing better  medical 
support to you during an emergency. 
h) The ambulance / service provider providing the services be a registered provider with 
road traffic authority. 
Any expenses in relation to transportation of the Insured Person from Hospital to the 
Insured Person’s residence while transferring an Insured Person after he/she has been 
discharged from the Hospital are not payable under this Benefit.  
 
7 Air Ambulance 
In consideration of the payment of additional premium to Us , We will cover the expenses 
incurred on air ambulance services in respect to you which are offered by a healthcare or an 
air ambulance service provider and which have been used during the Policy Period to transfer 
you to the nearest Hospital with adequate  emergency facilities for the provision of Emergency 
Care, provided that:  
 
i. Our maximum liability under this Benefit for any and all claims arising during the 
Policy Year will be restricted to the Sum insured as stated in the Policy 
Schedule/Key Information Sheet; 
ii. It is for a life threatening emergency health condition/s which requires immediate 
and rapid ambulance transportation from the place where you are situated at the 
time of requiring Emergency Care to a hospital provided that the transportation is 
for Medically Necessary Treatment, is certified in writing by a Medical Practitioner, 
and road ambulance services cannot be provided. 
iii. Such air ambulance providing the services, should be duly licensed to operate as 
such by a competent government Authority. 
iv. This cover is limited to transportation from the area of emergency to the nearest 
Hospital only;  
v. We will not cover: 
a) Any transportation from one Hospital to another; 
b) Any transportation of you from Hospital to the your residence after you 
have been discharged from the Hospital 

--- PAGE 22 ---

                                                                                                                                                       
                                                                                                                 UIN: ICIHLGP22083V022122 
 
22 
 
c) Any transportation or air ambulance expenses incurred outside the 
geographical scope of India. 
vi. We have accepted a claim under hospitalization expenses in respect to you for the 
same Accident/Illness for which air ambulance services were availed.  
vii. We shall not be liable if Medically Necessary Treatment can be provided at the 
Hospital where you are situated at the time of requiring Emergency Care.  
 
8 ASI Protector 
In consideration of payment of additional premium to Us, you can avail the benefit as mentioned 
under additional SI protector. Additional sum insured(ASI) accrued by you  will not be impacted 
or reduced at renewal if any one claim or multiple claims admissible in the previous policy year 
under the policy does not exceed the overall amount of Rs. 50,000. 
 
9 Sum Insured Protector 
In consideration of payment of additional premium to Us, you can avail the benefit under sum 
insured protector.  The Sum Insured protector is designed to protect the Sum Insured against 
rising inflation by linking the Sum Insured under the base plan to the Consumer Price index 
(CPI). 
The Sum Insured will be increased on cumulative basis at each renewal on the basis of inflation 
rate in previous \ year. Inflation rate would be computed as the average CPI of the entire 
calendar year published by the Central Statistical Organisation (CSO). Sum Insured protector 
will be calculated on previous year policy sum insured. 
At the time of renewal if the Insured person opts out of this optional cover, then the Sum insured 
protector accrued up until the expiring policy year will be forfeited 
The percentage increase will be applicable only on Annual Sum Insured under the Policy and 
not on additional sum insured or any other benefit which leads to increase in Sum Insured . 
 
10 Claim Protector 
In consideration of payment of additional premium to Us, you can avail the benefit as mentioned 
under claim protector. If a claim has been accepted under the inpatient hospitalization cover, 
then the items which are not payable under the claim  as per the List of Excluded items released 
(Part f.10 List of Non payables) that is related to the particular claim will become payable. The 
maximum claim payout under this benefit shall be limited to Annual Sum Insured under your 
policy. 
 
11 Super No Claim Bonus 
In consideration of payment of additional premium to us, you can avail the benefit under super 
no claim bonus.  All terms and conditions applicable to the additional sum insured feature will 
apply to this cover as well, except for the below mentioned terms and conditions: 
 If no claims have been paid in the expiring Policy year and the policy is being renewed without 
any break in period the Insured person will be awarded a super no claim bonus viz.  50% 
increase in the Sum insured for each completed year, maximum of 100% of Sum insured. 
 Super no claim bonus will be over and above the accrued additional sum insured, if any. In 
the event of a claim in the Policy year, the super no claim bonus will reduce by 50%.  
 At the time of renewal if the Insured person opts out of this optional cover, then the Super no 
claim bonus accrued up until the expiring policy year will be forfeited. 

--- PAGE 23 ---

                                                                                                                                                       
                                                                                                                 UIN: ICIHLGP22083V022122 
 
23 
 
 In case no claims are made in the Policy year, the super no claim bonus will be credited 
automatically to the subsequent policy year even in the case of multi-year policies (2 & 3 year 
policy tenure). 
 Super no claim bonus will be calculated on the previous policy years Sum insured.  
 Additional Sum insured (cumulative bonus) won’t be applicable if you opt for super no claim 
bonus. 
 
12 Maternity Cover : 
In consideration of the payment of additional premium to us, and subject always to the amount 
as specified against this benefit in the  Policy Schedule/Key Information Sheet , We will cover 
you for  
 Medical Expenses incurred for delivery, i ncluding a caesarian section, during 
Hospitalization or lawful medical termination of pregnancy  and pre and postnatal 
expenses during the Policy Year. 
 The cover shall be limited to 2 deliveries/ terminations during the Period of 
Insurance.   
 Pre-natal and postnatal expenses shall be covered. 
 Delivery expense for pre- mature baby less than 32 weeks will be covered. 
 
Provided always that;  
a) The cover under this extension shall be available after the specified period of time 
as mentioned in the policy schedule/Key Information Sheet against the benefit has 
elapsed since the inception of the first Policy with Us.  
b) Pre- and Post-Hospitalization expenses under A. 3 will not be covered under this 
extension 
c) This benefit is available only under a family floater Policy. 
d) This benefit is available for You or Your spouse provided You and Your spouse, 
both are covered under the same family floater Policy and have served the waiting 
period. 
e) This benefit can be extended to both Individual and floater plans, irrespective of 
you and your spouse being covered under the same plan , if opted by the group  
and specified in policy schedule/Key Information Sheet. 
f) We will not cover ectopic pregnancy under this benefit (the same shall be covered 
under In-patient Treatment) 
g) We will not cover expenses incurred in respect of the harvesting and storage of 
stem cells when carried out as a preventive measure against possible future 
Illnesses; 
h) On any Renewal, if an enhanced Sum Insured is applied, the condition for specified 
months of required continuous coverage would apply afresh, but only to the extent 
of the increased amount available under this Benefit. 
 
 
 
13 New-born baby cover 
In consideration of the payment of additional premium to Us , and subject to the amount as 
specified against this be nefit in the Policy Schedule /Key Information Sheet . New Born Baby 
cover- will cover Medical Expenses incurred on the “New born Baby” during Hospitalisation (for 
a minimum period of consecutive 24 hours) for a maximum period up to 91 days from the date 
of birth of the baby. This cover will be available only if maternity cover has been opted by you.  

--- PAGE 24 ---

                                                                                                                                                       
                                                                                                                 UIN: ICIHLGP22083V022122 
 
24 
 
 
Subject otherwise to the terms, conditions and exclusions of the Policy 
 
14 Out Patient Treatment Cover 
In consideration of the payment of additional premium to us, as specified against this benefit in 
the policy schedule/Key Information Sheet. We will cover you for the Medical Expenses incurred 
by You in outpatient. 
For the purpose of this extension, the following shall be covered under this benefit  
 
a) Outpatient consultation by a General Medical Practitioner or Specialist Medical Practitioner 
or Super Specialist Medical practitioner or AYUSH medical practitioner in relation to any 
Illness contracted or Injury suffered by the Insured Person during the Policy period. 
b) Diagnostics test as recommended/prescribed by the medical practitioner.  
c) Pharmacy – Medicines purchased by the Insured Person from a pharmacy, provided that 
such medicines have been prescribed in writing by a Medical Practitioner. 
Note: Payment of expenses towards outpatient treatment will not prejudice the company's right to deal 
with a claim in case of non -disclosure of material fact and / or Pre - Existing Diseases in terms of the 
policy. 
Exclusion applicable to Outpatient Treatment 
We shall not be liable to make any payment under this Extension in connection with or in 
respect of any expenses whatsoever incurred by you in connection with or in respect of:  
a) Intentional self-injury (whether arising from an attempt to commit suicide or otherwise)  
b) Use, misuse or abuse of intoxicating drugs or alcohol 
c) Aesthetic treatment, cosmetic surgery and plastic surgery including any complications 
arising  out of or attributable to these, unless necessitated due to Accident or as a part of any 
Illness 
d) Any treatment/surgery for change of sex or treatment/surgery/complications/Illness arising 
as a consequence thereof 
e) Experimental, unproven or non-standard treatment which is not consistent with or incidental 
to the usual diagnosis and treatment of any Illness or Injury 
f) Vaccination procurement and administration 
g) External medical aids are not covered under this benefit. 
h) Expenses associated with optometric therapy and associated aids like spectacles, contact 
lenses are also not covered. 
i) Dental treatment/ Implants and associated oral and maxillofacial surgical procedures  
j) Health supplements, Nutraceuticals, foods for special dietary use, foods for special medical 
purpose, foods with added probiotics and/or foods with added prebiotics, vaccinations, 
vitamins, tonics or other related products are excluded from the scope of this cover  

--- PAGE 25 ---

                                                                                                                                                       
                                                                                                                 UIN: ICIHLGP22083V022122 
 
25 
 
k) Expenses for treatment directly arising from or consequent upon any Insured Person 
committing or attempting to commit a breach of law with criminal intent 
l) Treatment taken outside the country 
m) Any Illness or Injury resulting or arising from or occurring during the commission of 
continuing perpetration of a violation of law by an Insured with any malafide or criminal intent  
n) Any injury or illness caused by or arising from or attributed to war, invasion, acts of foreign 
enemies, hostilities (whether war be declared or not), civil war, commotion, unrest, rebellion, 
revolution, military or usurped power or confiscation or nationalisation or requisition of or 
damage by or under the order of any government or public local authority.  
o) Any Illness or Injury caused by or contributed to by nuclear weapons/materials or contributed 
to by or arising from ionising radiation or contamination by radioactivity by any nuclear fuel or 
from any nuclear waste or from the combustion of nuclear fuel. 
p) Any other benefit except consultation, diagnostic and pharmacy will be excluded from the 
scope of this cover. 
 
Claim Documents for Extension/Add-on cover 14 
You will be required to furnish the following documents in original for or in support of a Claim:  
 Duly completed Claim form 
 Bills / invoices raised in Your name 
 Test reports and payment receipts 
 Any other document as required by Us 
 
15 Hospital Daily Cash 
In consideration of the payment of additional premium to Us, If You contract an Illness or suffer 
an Injury due to an Accident that occurs during the Period of Cover and which solely and directly 
requires the Insured Person to be hospitalized, then we will pay th e daily amount specified in 
the Policy Certificate for each continuous and completed day of Hospitalization  
 
This Benefit shall be payable subject to the following:  
a) The Hospitalization is for Medically Necessary Treatment and is commenced and continued on 
the written advice of the treating Medical Practitioner.  
b) We shall not be liable to pay the daily amount for more than the maximum number of days 
specified in the Policy schedule/Key Information Sheet for each period of Hospitalization within 
the Period of Cover.  
c) Our liability to make any payment under this Be nefit shall be in excess of the per event 
Deductible or per event Franchise stated in the Policy Certificate, if applicable.  
d) We shall not be liable to make any payment under this Benefit, if Hospitalization commenced 
prior to the commencement of the Period of Cover or within the waiting period specified in the 
Policy Certificate.  
e) The Claim under this extension will be payable only if We have admitted Our liability under “In-
patient Treatment” section of the Policy. 
 
16 Daily Cash Benefit for Leave from Job 
In consideration of the payment of additional premium to us. We will pay You a daily cash 
amount for each completed day of hospitalisation for a minimum of 3 days and maximum of 10 

--- PAGE 26 ---

                                                                                                                                                       
                                                                                                                 UIN: ICIHLGP22083V022122 
 
26 
 
days as specified in the policy schedule/Key Information Sheet if You require leave from work, 
to attend your spouse only. Provided  
 A supporting document from the employer verifyin g that your leave from job is 
resulting in loss of pay 
 You are employed on direct payroll of an organization or entity having a registered 
office in India. 
 Certificate/document stating the reason of absence of the employee from the 
workplace 
 Documents/Discharge summary/hospitalization records of the spouse. 
 
Note: This cover is applicable to full time salaried employees only 
  
17 Compassionate Visit 
     In consideration of the payment of additional premium to us, as specified against this benefit in 
the policy schedule /Key Information Sheet . In the event of Your Hospitalization, which in the 
opinion of the Medical Practitioner attending on You, extends beyond a period of 5 consecutive 
days, We will reimburse the cost of the economy class air ticke t incurred by Your Immediate 
family from and to the place of origin of such immediate family or the place of residence of the 
immediate family. 
     Our liability under this benefit, however, in respect of any one event or all events of 
Hospitalization dur ing the Policy Year shall not in aggregate exceed the amount (per Policy 
Year) as specified against this benefit in the policy schedule/Key Information Sheet. 
18 Convalescence Benefit 
In consideration of the paym ent of additional premium to us, We will pay You an amount as 
specified against this benefit in the policy schedule /Key Information Sheet , if You are 
Hospitalized for a minimum period of 10 consecutive days, due to any Injury or Illness as 
covered under the Policy. This benefit is payable only once to an Insured Person during each 
Policy Year of the Policy Period. 
Subject otherwise to the terms, conditions and exclusions of the Policy 
 
19 Rehabilitation care 
In consideration of the payment of additio nal premium to us, we will pay Y ou an amount as 
specified against this benefit in the policy schedule /Key Information Sheet  for the post -
surgical/operative rehabilitation care for a minimum period of 10 consecutive days, due to any 
Injury or Illness as covered under the Policy. This benefit is payable o nly once to you during 
each Policy Year of the Policy Period. Provided 
 
 We have accepted the claim  under hospitalization expenses in respect to you for the 
same Accident/Illness 
 The post - surgical/operative care is approved by the treating medical 
Practitioner/surgeon 
 The care is carried out by a medical practitioner/therapist licensed, registered or 
certified in providing rehabilitation  
 
             For the purpose this extension rehabilitation is defined as  
 

--- PAGE 27 ---

                                                                                                                                                       
                                                                                                                 UIN: ICIHLGP22083V022122 
 
27 
 
Rehabilitation mean a set of interve ntions needed when a person is experiencing or likely 
experience limitation in everyday functioning due to surgery/operative procedure done for a 
health condition. 
 
20 Nursing at Home 
In consideration of the payment of additional premium to us. We will pay You for the expenses 
incurred by You, up to an amount as specified against this benefit in the policy schedule /Key 
Information Sheet, for each day up to a maximum of 15 days post Hospitalization for the medical 
services of a Qualified Nurse at  Your residen ce, provided that the nurse is employed in a 
Hospital/Service provider and the engagement of such Qualified Nurse is certified as necessary 
by a Medical Practitioner and relates directly to any Illness or Injury, covered under the Policy. 
The payment under this extension is subject to admissibility of Your Hospitalization Claim under 
the Policy. 
For the purpose of this extension, the term “Qualified Nurse” means a person who holds a valid 
registration from the Nursing Council of India or the Nursing Council of any state in India.   
 
Subject otherwise to the terms, conditions and exclusions of the Policy. 
 
 
21 Home Health care 
In this benefit we will cover the medical expenses incurred by you on availing treatment at home 
provided that:   
 
a)    You have been advised non-emergency hospitalization by a Medical practitioner and you out of 
your own will, opts to undergo treatment at home. 
b)    Your condition is expected to improve in a reasonable and foreseeable period of time.    
c)    There is a continuous active line of treatment with monitoring of the health status by a medical 
practitioner for each day through the duration of the home care treatment. 
d)    Treatment that can be availed on Outpatient basis will not be qualified to be covered under this 
clause. 
e)    You can avail the services as prescribed by the medical practitioner on cashless basis which 
would be arranged by the Insurer through designated network provider. 
  
However under special circumstances in case You intends to avail the services of non-network 
provider and claims for reimbursement, a prior approval from the Insur er needs to be taken 
before availing such services. In case you breach the conditions of approval or fails to take the 
prior written approval the insurer is not liable to settle any claim under this benefit. 
  
In case of unavailability of network provider for cashless claims or non -network provider for 
reimbursement claims, you will have to avail inpatient hospitalization.  
In this benefit, the following would be covered if prescribed by the treating medical practitioner 
and is related to treatment,   
a.    Diagnostic tests undergone at home or at diagnostics centre  
b.    Medicines prescribed in writing  
c.    Consultation charges of the medical practitioner 
d.    Nursing charges related to medical staff 
e.    Medical procedures limited to parenteral administration of medicines  
  
Any expenses payable during the Policy period shall not in aggregate exceed the maximum 
Annual Sum Insured and cumulative bonus (if any) as specified in the Policy Schedule /Key 
Information Sheet against this Benefit. 
Subject to other terms, conditions and exclusions of the policy 
 
22 Dependent Accommodation 

--- PAGE 28 ---

                                                                                                                                                       
                                                                                                                 UIN: ICIHLGP22083V022122 
 
28 
 
In consideration of additional premium to us, If You contract an Illness or suffer an Injury due 
to Accident during the Policy Period and which solely and directly requires the You to be 
Hospitalized, We will pay the daily amount for the accommodation of the dependent  in the 
hospital only as specified in the Policy Schedule/Key Information Sheet against this benefit in 
respect of each continuous and completed day of your Hospitalization. 
 
For the purpose of this Extension, Dependent means immediate family members as defined  
 
Provided: 
a) We have accepted the claim under hospitalization expensed in respect to You for 
the same Accident/Illness.  
b) The Hospitalization is for Medically Necessary Treatment and is commenced and 
continued on the written advice of the treating Medical Practitioner. 
c) The medical practi tioner certifies that the hospitalised insured member required 
hospitalization of minimum 3 consecutive days, maximum up to 10 days 
d) We will pay only for one immediate family member. 
 
23 Voluntary Deductible 
In case the You have opted for a voluntary deductible, as specified in the Policy Schedule, the 
Deductible will be applicable on aggregate basis for all Hospitalization expenses during the 
Policy Year before it becomes payable by Us, subject to terms, conditions and exclusions of 
the Policy. The deductible will apply on individual basis in case of individual policy and on floater 
basis in case of floater policy . Voluntary deductible shall not be applicable to any optional 
covers. 
 
24 Voluntary Co-Payment 
In case You have opted for a voluntary co-payment, you will be liable to pay the % of admissible 
claim amount for each and every claim as specified in the policy schedule.  
 
 Voluntary Co -payment shall be applicable only after the Voluntary Deductible has 
been exhausted, provided both has been opted by you. 
 Voluntary Co-payment applicable shall be in addition to zone based co pay opted.  
 Voluntary Co-payment shall not be applicable to any optional covers. 
 
 
25 Zone wise premium 
If opted customer will pay the co-pay as per Zone explained below: 
a. Zone 1 : NCR*, Mumbai, Thane District, Raigad District(Maharashtra), Navi Mumbai, 
Gujarat, Kolkata 
b. Zone 2 : Hyderabad, Secunderabad, Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh, Daman & Diu, 
Dadar & Nagar Haveli, Goa, Maharashtra (excluding Mumbai, Thane District, Raigad 
District (Maharashtra), Navi Mumbai) 
c. Zone 3: Rest of India 
 
* Includes Delhi and the following districts: Faridabad, Gurgaon/Gurugram, Mewat, Rohtak, 
Sonipat, Panipat, Jhajjhar, Palwal, Karnal, Ghaziabad, Noida/Gautam Budh Nagar, 
Bulandshahr, Baghpat, Hapur, Shamli, Muzaffarnagar 
 

--- PAGE 29 ---

                                                                                                                                                       
                                                                                                                 UIN: ICIHLGP22083V022122 
 
29 
 
Zone Opted for Co-pay for each and 
every claim in Zone I 
Co-pay for each 
and every claim in 
Zone 2 
Co-pay for each 
and every claim in 
Zone 3 
Zone 1 Nil Nil Nil 
Zone 2 10% Nil Nil 
Zone 3 15% 5% Nil 
 
 
26 Sub Limits on Illness/ Surgeries / Procedures 
In case Y ou have opted for sublimit, our maximum liability to make payment for the Medical 
Expenses incurred during any Hospitalisation (including its related Pre and Post Hospitalization 
expenses if applicable) due to the below mentioned Surgeries / Medical Procedures or any 
medical treatment pertaining to an Illness / Injury shall be limited as per the table below  
 
S. No. Particulars Sub-limits (Rs.) 
1 Cataract per eye As specified against 
this benefit in the 
policy schedule 2 Other Eye Surgeries 
3 ENT 
4 Surgeries for - 
Tumors/Cysts/Nodule/Polyp 
5 Stone in Urinary System 
6 Hernia Related 
7 Appendectomy 
8 Knee Ligament Reconstruction Surgery 
9 Hysterectomy 
10 Fissures/Piles/Fistulas 
11 Spine & Vertebrae related 
12 Cellulites/Abscess  
 
 
27 Health Check-up Cover 
Expense incurred towards the cost of Health check-Up will be covered as specified against the 
benefit in the policy schedule/Key Information Sheet every year. Subject to the conditions below 
 
 Health checkup will be availed only at out empanelled ser vice provider on cashless 
basis as per the available medical test packages. 
 The policy is renewed with us without any break. 
 This benefit doesn’t not reduce sum insured or impact the accrued bonus (if any) 
 Any unutilized test or amount can’t be carry forwarded to next policy year.   
 

--- PAGE 30 ---

                                                                                                                                                       
                                                                                                                 UIN: ICIHLGP22083V022122 
 
30 
 
Note: Payment of expenses towards cost of health check-up will not prejudice the company's right to 
deal with a claim in case of non-disclosure of material fact and / or Pre - Existing Diseases in terms of 
the policy. 
 
 
 
 
28 360 Wellbeing Program 
On payment of additional premium, Y ou shall be enrolled under the 360 Wellbeing program 
which aims to empower individuals to manage their lifestyle and prevent complication arising 
from adverse health conditions. It intends to p romote, incentivize and reward Y ou for your 
healthy behavior through various health and wellbeing activities.  
 
The Health Coach shall only be available, if you are aged 21 and above. The Health Coach is 
a personal ized service that shall encourage and promote optimal health and physical and 
mental wellbeing through a telephonic / digital connect. The Health Coaches associated with 
the 360 wellbeing program shall be qualified nutritionist, dietician & physiotherapist  with 
certification on coaching, who will 
 
 Guide & motivate You to follow a healthy lifestyle & promote wellbeing   
 Coach You on fitness, diet & nutrition, stress management, weight management & counselling 
 Give reminders on blood tests to be done & medications to be consumed 
 
You shall have access to the health coach on downloading and registering on our mobile 
application. This activity needs to be done within 30 days of policy start date to ensure adequate 
utilization of services offered and to redeem the wellbeing points awarded.  
  
On Registration and completion of Health risk assessment [HRA], you will be evaluated by the 
Health Coach and will be assessed and educated for adapting a healthy lifestyle  
 
a) What we cover under the 360 wellbeing program  
 
The wellbeing program has been designed to ensure a regular monitoring of your health and timely 
intervention and a concrete plan for corrective measures in case of any decline in the health status. 
You shall be subjected to a Periodic assessment via Health Assessment which includes outcomes 
of medical tests conducted and questionnaire based assessment covering aspects of lifestyle, 
current medical history & family history. The assessment will be carried out using a telephonic/ 
digital connect with the Health Coach. In case of any adverse health conditions/life style diseases 
you shall be shifted to the eligible risk category (green/amber/red) at the time of renewal of the 
policy by paying the requisite premium for the same. This periodic assessment will be carried out 
every year to monitor you’re the health condition. 
The lifestyle/health conditions that shall be considered for 360 wellbeing program will include the 
below mentioned health conditions but shall not be limited to these conditions. The updated list of 
health conditions will be uploaded on the mobile application for future reference.  
1. Hypertension 
2. Diabetes 
3. Hyperlipidemia 
4. Obesity  
5. Heart and vascular conditions  
i. Myocardial Infarction  
ii. Refractory heart failure  
iii. Cardiomyopathy 

--- PAGE 31 ---

                                                                                                                                                       
                                                                                                                 UIN: ICIHLGP22083V022122 
 
31 
 
6. Lung Conditions  
i. End stage lung Failure  
ii. Primary(Idiopathic) pulmonary Hypertension 
7. Liver conditions 
End stage liver Failure 
8. Neuro/ spinal & psychiatric disease  
i. Multiple sclerosis with Persisting symptoms  
ii. Motor neuron disease with Permanent symptoms  
iii. Permanent paralysis of limbs  
iv. Stroke resulting in permanent symptoms 
v. Coma of specified severity  
vi. Alzheimer’s Disease before age of 50 years   
vii. Parkinson’s disease before age of 50 years  
viii. Apallic syndrome  
ix. Benign brain tumour  
x. Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (CJD)  
xi. Major head trauma 
9. Renal diseases  
i. Kidney failure requiring regular dialysis  
ii. Medullary cystic disease 
10. Musculoskeletal diseases 
i. Muscular dystrophy  
ii. Poliomyelitis 
11. Bleeding disorders  
i. Aplastic Anaemia 
12. Auto immune diseases 
i. Systemic Lupus Erythematous with renal involvement  
ii. Myasthenia gravis  
iii. Scleroderma  
iv. Good pastures syndrome with lung or renal involvement 
v. Blindness  
vi. Deafness  
vii. Cancer of specified severity  
viii. Third Degree Burns  
ix. Loss of speech  
x. Loss of limbs  
xi. Loss of Independent Existence 
 
 
 
b) On-Boarding  
Based on your declaration of pre-existing disease and/or results of pre-policy medical check -
up (PPMC), You will be categorized in the below mentioned categories (as mentioned in Table 
A) 
 
 Table A: Classification during on-boarding 
Medical Tests Green Amber 
Glycosylated Hemoglobin 
(HbA1c)  
< 6% >6 and up to7% 
Blood Pressure reading Systolic Up to 120 mm hg 
Diastolic Up to 80 mm hg 
Systolic >120mm and <140 
mmhg 
Diastolic > 80 mm and <90 
mm hg  
Low Density Lipoprotein (LDL) < 100 mg/dl >100 and < or = 190 mg/dl 

--- PAGE 32 ---

                                                                                                                                                       
                                                                                                                 UIN: ICIHLGP22083V022122 
 
32 
 
High Density Lipoprotein 
(HDL) 
> or = 40 mg/dl > 20 mg/dl and <40 mg/dl 
Serum cholesterol < or = 200mg/dl >200 and < or =300 mg/dl 
Triglycerides <or = 150 mg/dl > 150 and <= 250mg/dl 
Body Mass Index (BMI) < or = 32 >32 and < or = 40 
 In case of cla ssification in amber category, Y ou will be subjected to a risk based loading and 
pay the requisite premium for the same.  
 
c) At the time of renewal 
Based on the health assessment results parameters, evaluation by the Health Coach and the 
current health conditions based on  outcomes of various health check -ups, Y ou will be 
categorized into any of the below mentioned categories as mentioned below in Table B  
 
Table B: Classification at the time of renewal: 
Medical Tests (Green) (Amber)  (Red) 
Glycosylated 
Hemoglobin (HbA1c)
  
< 6% • >6 and up to7% >7% 
Blood Pressure 
reading 
Systolic Up to 
120 mm hg 
Diastolic Up to 
80 mm hg 
• Systolic >120mm 
and <140 mmhg 
• Diastolic > 80 mm 
and <90 mm hg  
Systolic 
>140mm  
Diastolic > 
90 mm  
Low Density 
Lipoprotein (LDL) < 100 mg/dl • >100 and < or = 190 
mg/dl >190 mg/dl 
High Density 
Lipoprotein (HDL) > or = 40 mg/dl • > 20 mg/dl and <40 
mg/dl > 40 mg/dl 
Serum  cholesterol < or = 200mg/dl • >200 and < or =300 
mg/dl >300 mg/dl 
Triglycerides <or = 150 mg/dl • > 150 and <= 
250mg/dl > 250 mg/dl 
Body Mass Index 
(BMI) < or = 32 • >32 and < or = 40 >40  
 In case of deterioration of health condition, you may be moved from green to amber OR amber 
to red category. 
 You will have to pay the risk based loaded premium as applicable for the respective category. 
 The loading percentage applicable for red category shall be higher than the loading percentage 
applied for the amber category.  
 Once you  have been part of amber/red category, you will have to be part of the respective 
category for a consecutive period of 2 years. Post the successful completion of 2 years in the 
360 wellbeing program, your health condition will be reviewed by the health coach. On the basis 
of the health condition at the time of review, it will be decided whether you needs to continue in 
the respective amber/ red category or move to green category.  
 
d) 360 Wellbeing Points 
Definition 

--- PAGE 33 ---

                                                                                                                                                       
                                                                                                                 UIN: ICIHLGP22083V022122 
 
33 
 
360 Wellbeing points is a platform through which you under 360 wellbeing program will be 
incentivized and rewarded towards adaption of healthy lifestyle behavior under the guidance of 
health coach. 
 
Conditions Mandatory to earn 360 wellbeing points across Health category  
 
To earn 360 wellbeing poin t, health assessment is mandatory. Each point earned values 20 
paisa. If you are in green category at the time of on boarding, health assessment is optional, 
but if you opt for it, as per the outcome you will earn wellbeing points as stated Table C. 
Please Note: 
 Health assessment includes Blood test ( BP, BMI, WHR, hbA1c, Total cholesterol)  followed 
with an assessment by health coach for scoring 
 The assessment will be carried out by ICICI Lombard service providers only. 
 
e) Wellbeing points structure: 
 
Wellbeing points are further categorized into Be -Healthy and Stay -Healthy points. Conditions 
to earn both these points have been explained in the following sections in detail.  
In case of a floater policy, maximum 2 adults aged 21 and above  shall be covered in the 
program and the 360 wellbeing points to be awarded shall be doubled, provided, that both the 
Insured Persons complete their respective wellbeing activities.  
 
Be-Healthy Points 
The Be Healthy points have been designed with the objective to monitor your health at regular intervals. 
The better the health status as evidenced through various health outcomes as mentioned below in 
Table C, more of Be -Healthy points will be awarded. You  can earn a maximum of 7000 Be -healthy 
points per insured. 
 
Table C: Be-Healthy points structure as per category 
Blood test Readings 
 
Total 
points Frequency Points 
earned/activity 
Green Category Amber category 
For green category, 1 st health assessment is 
conducted within three months from the policy 
start date if no adverse health parameter is found 
you will continue in green category and wellbeing 
points will be unlocked 
 
A second  health assessment (optional) is  also 
available to you which will help you to earn 
additional wellbeing points. 
Those who have adverse outcome in health 
assessment will be advised to upgraded to 360 
wellbeing program. 
 
If you are  in Amber Category at the t ime of on 
boarding, health assessment is a part of 360 
Wellbeing program  Health assessment will be 
done twice a year, post on boarding. 
 
 1st assessment will be done between 5th to 6th 
month after the policy start date 
 2nd assessment will be done between 11 th to 
12 month after policy start date 
 
 
360 wellbeing point earned will be as per the 
outcome values of health assessment 

--- PAGE 34 ---

                                                                                                                                                       
                                                                                                                 UIN: ICIHLGP22083V022122 
 
34 
 
HbA1c 
up to 5.99 
Twice a 
year 
750 Maximum 
1500 
 
 
6.00-6.50 300 
6.51-7.00 100 
Blood pressure 
110-120/70-80 
Twice a 
year 
750 Maximum 
1500 
 
 
121-130/80-85 300 
131-140/86-90 100 
Body mass index 
18.00 - 25.00 
Twice a 
year 
750 Maximum 
1500 
 
 
25.01 – 32.00 300 
32.01 - 40 100 
Total cholesterol 
(Triglyceride) 
up to 150 mg/dl 
Twice a 
year 
750 Maximum 
1500 
 
 
151mg/dl-200mg/dl 300 
201mg/dl-250mg/dl 100 
Diagnostic test 
undergone 
Preventive check up 
Once a year 
300 300 
Self-paid advance 
check up 700 700 
Total  7000 
 
Self paid advance check up 
You can also earn wellness points by undergoing certain other diagnostic tests (as suggested by Our 
empanelled medical experts) at any diagnostic centre at your own expenses. You shall have to submit 
medical reports of these tests to Us. 
Redemption of Be-Healthy Points 
 
 The Be-Healthy points earned by you can be redeemed for discount in renewal premium 
or towards payment of non-payable items which are deducted as per the  list of non-payable 
items (Part f 10 List of Non Payable). 
 In case, the Health assessment results for any blood test parameter as mentioned in table 
C, crosses the defined range, then you shall be dis -qualified for the entire reward scheme 
under Be-Healthy points 
 
 
Stay-Healthy Points  

--- PAGE 35 ---

                                                                                                                                                       
                                                                                                                 UIN: ICIHLGP22083V022122 
 
35 
 
The Stay-healthy program has been structured to reward You for maintaining good health throughout 
the year. The points earned as per the engagement activities and their duration has been explained 
below. The maximum points which can be earned through this program will be 6000 per Insured Person.  
 
Table D: Stay-Healthy points structure: 
Parameter Category Duration Frequency Points 
earned/activity 
Total 
Points 
Advisory on health 
records Engagement Twice a year 2 400 800 
Tele-consultation Engagement 4 times a 
year 4 150 600 
Activity Tracking Activity Monthly 12 100 1200 
Fitness challenge Engagement Twice a year 2 300 600 
Sleep tracking Activity Monthly 12 100 1200 
Health events Engagement Once in 2 
months 6 100 600 
Wellness events Engagement    1000 
Total  6000 
 
Redemption of Stay Healthy points 
• Stay-Healthy points can be redeemed to avail various health products on ICICI Lombard platform, 
for payment of OPD expenses, for payment of membership fees in Fitness centers & health 
supplements as available on ICICI Lombard platform. 
 
Stay Healthy Point Parameters (Table D) 
1 Advisory on health records 
You will get a medical vault for storing your health records on the mobile application. You can 
save Your relevant medical records like diagnostic reports, prescriptions, rou tine and 
preventive health check -ups in the vault .  On seeking advisory or second opinion on health 
records you can earn maximum of 800 points, basis your consent. 
Advisory/Second opinion can be availed using tele -consultation platform  on the mobile 
application only. However, the services under this Benefit should not be construed to constitute 
medical advice and/or substitute your visit/ consultation to an independent Medical 
Practitioner/Healthcare professional. We shall not be liable for any discrepancy in the 
information provided under this Benefit 
 
2 Tele-Consultation 
Telephonic/Virtual consultation can be availed from a Medical Practitioner or Health care 
professional through various mode of communication like audio, video, Chat. Various services 
will be provided through our empanelled service provider subject to terms and conditions  
 
 The Medical Practitioner may suggest/recommend/prescribe over the counter 
medications based on the information provided, if required on a case to case basis. 
However, the services under this Benefit should not be construed to constitute medical 
advice and/or substitute the Insured Person's visit/ consultation to an independent 
Medical Practitioner/Healthcare professional. 

--- PAGE 36 ---

                                                                                                                                                       
                                                                                                                 UIN: ICIHLGP22083V022122 
 
36 
 
 This service shall be available 24 hours a day, and 365 days in a year. 
 We/Medical Practitioner/Healthcare professional may refer you to a specialist medical 
practitioner or a general physician, if required 
 We shall not be liable for any discrepancy in the information provided under this Benefit 
 
You shall be  awarded 150 points for an audio consultation with a medical practitioner and a 
maximum of 600 points can be accrued under this benefit. 
 
3 Activity Tracking 
You can also earn Stay-Healthy points by participating in any one of the fitness categories as 
mentioned in Table E, which will be tracked via our IL digital platform/ mobile Application, 
provided the application is downloaded within 30 days from the policy start date. Fitness 
assessment (option3) needs to carried out through our service providers only a nd it includes 
 Flexibility test 
 Muscular strength test 
 Abdominal/Core strength test 
 Body composition test 
 Cardiovascular fitness test 
 
Table E: Stay-Healthy points through steps/calories burned/fitness assessment  
 
4 Fitness Challenge: 
You shall be awarded Stay-Healthy points on participation and successful completion of fitness 
challenges. You shall be awarded 300 points per fitness challenge and a maximum of 600 Stay 
Healthy points per Insured Person can be gained by participation and completion of the fitness 
challenges. Fitness challenges includes but are not limited to marathon, cyclothon etc.  
 
5 Sleep Tracking: 
You can also earn Stay -Healthy points by allowing our mobile application to track Your sleep 
duration as explained in below table F 
 
Table F: Stay-Healthy points through Sleep Tracking 
Options Fitness category Grid/month 
Maximum  
Points per 
month 
Maximum  Points 
accumulated in a year 
Option 1 
Steps taken-Average Steps 
achieved per day for  in a 
month 
8,000+ steps 100 1200 
6,000 to 7,999 
steps 90 1080 
4,000 to 5,999 
steps 80 960 
< 4,000 steps Nil Nil 
Option 2 
Calories burned - Min 400 
calories burned per day for a 
month 
Min 400 
calories 100 1200 
Option 3 Fitness assessment Twice in a year. Per assessment - 
600 points 1200 

--- PAGE 37 ---

                                                                                                                                                       
                                                                                                                 UIN: ICIHLGP22083V022122 
 
37 
 
Average hours of sleep per 
day for  in a month 
Maximum  Points per 
month 
Maximum  Points accumulated in a 
year 
7 hours 1 min-8 hours 100 1200 
6 hours 1 min-7 hours 90 1080 
< 6 hours Nil Nil 
 
 
6 Health Events: 
You will be awarded Stay-Healthy points on participation and successful completion of health 
events initiated by Us from time to time. You shall be awarded 100 points per health event and 
a maximum of 600 points per Insured Person can be gained by participation and completion of 
health events.  
Health event can be defined as various events which work towards creating awareness, 
spreading knowledge about the benefits of a healthy lifestyle which include both physical health 
and mental health. These include interactive sessions, meditation, fitness videos, health 
awareness and educational sessions. 
 
7 Wellness events: 
You shall be awarded Stay-healthy points on participation and successful completion of health 
events initiated by Us from time to time.  
Wellness events can be understood as an engagement tool for the customers to make them 
aware on their individual wellbeing aspects. It also aims to rewa rd them on their level of 
awareness on various aspects of wellbeing. It includes health quiz, health contest, wellness 
awareness sessions 
 
 
 
 Also, As a Reward for Your loyalty and long association with us, We shall increase the Rupee 
value of the Wellbeing Points Year on Year as per the Table G below 
 
Table G: Increase in Rupee Value of Wellbeing Points 
 
f) Redemption of 360 wellness points (Stay-Healthy+ Be-Healthy) Points 
Conditions on Redemption of 360 wellbeing point 
Renewal year Rupee Value of 
Wellness Points 
Wellness Points Rupee Value of Wellness 
Points 
First Renewal (2 nd 
Year of policy) 
INR 0.21 1000 INR 210 
Second Renewal 
(3rd Year of policy) 
INR 0.22 1000 INR 220 
Third Renewal (4th 
Year of policy) 
INR 0.23 1000 INR 230 
Fourth Renewal 
(5th Year of policy  
and onwards) 
INR 0.25 1000 INR 250 

--- PAGE 38 ---

                                                                                                                                                       
                                                                                                                 UIN: ICIHLGP22083V022122 
 
38 
 
 You have to accumulate a minimum of one thousand wellbeing points during the policy period 
in order to redeem the same. 
 The maximum amount of 360 wellbeing points that You can redeem will be as per the Table H 
below: 
 
Table H: Maximum 360 wellbeing points  
Year  Maximum points that can be redeem 
under  Be-Healthy 
Maximum points that can be redeem 
under Stay-Healthy 
1st Year 5500 5000 
2nd Year 5500 5000 
3rd Year 6000 5500 
4th Year 6500 5500 
5th Year& 
onwards 
7000 6000 
 
Balance between the maximum points earned and points redeemed can be carried  forward for 
maximum of 3 years , provided policy is active continuously with us and shall have to be redeemed at 
the end of the 3rd Policy Year. In case, you does not wish to redeem the wellbeing points earned, the 
same will be forfeited. 
Illustration for Redemption of wellbeing Points  (Policy Tenure 1 year) .Below mentioned Table I is a 
road map journey of 5 years for an individual with 360 wellbeing program  
Table I: Illustration for redemption of wellbeing points 
   1 2 3 4 5 
 
 
 
Particulars 
 Fres
h 
1st 
Renewal 
2nd Renew 
al 3rd Renewal 4th Renewal 
 1st 
Year 2nd Year 3rd  
year 4th Year 5th Year 
        
 Be-healthy points illustration 
A 
Maximum points  
earned under  Be -
Healthy  
 7000 7000 7000 7000 7000 
B Maximum points that 
can be redeemed  
 5500 5500 6000 6500 7000 
C Balance point that can 
be carried forwarded 
A-
B 1500 1500 1000 500 0 
D Total Cumulative 
Balance Points  1500 
3000  
Balance 
Points Of  2nd 
year (C2) + 
Carry forward 
Points of   1st 
year (D1) 
4000 
Balance Points 
of 3 rd year (C3) 
+ 
Carry forward 
points of 2 nd 
year (D2) 
4500 
Balance Points 
of 4th year (C4) 
+ 
Carry for ward 
points of 3 nd 
year (D3) 
3000* 
Carry for ward 
points of 4th  year 
(D4) –  
Balance points 
of 1st year(C1) 
E Value of one 360 
wellbeing point 
 0.2 0.21 0.22 0.23 0.25 
F 
Value in terms of INR 
for point that can be 
availed for benefit as 
per terms 
 1100 1155 1320 1495 1750 
G Cumulative INR for 
carry forward points 
D*
E 300 630 880 1035 750 
        

--- PAGE 39 ---

                                                                                                                                                       
                                                                                                                 UIN: ICIHLGP22083V022122 
 
39 
 
 Stay-Healthy points illustration 
H 
Maximum points that 
earned under Stay 
Healthy  
 6000 6000 6000 6000 6000 
I 
Maxmium points that 
can be redeemed the 
same year 
 5000 5000 5500 5500 6000 
J Balance point that can 
be carried forwarded I-J 1000 1000 500 500 0 
K Total Cumulative 
Balance Points  1000 
2000 
Balance 
Points Of  2nd 
year (J2) + 
Carry forward 
Points of   1st 
year (K1) 
2500 
Balance Points 
Of 3rd  year (J3) 
+ 
Carry forward 
Points of   2nd 
year (K2) 
 3000 
Balance Points 
Of 4th   year (J4) 
+ 
Carry forward 
Points of   3rd  
year (K3) 
2000* 
Carry for ward 
points of 4th  year 
(K4) –  
Balance points 
of 1st year(J1) 
L Value of one 360 
wellbeing point 
 0.2 0.21 0.22 0.23 0.25 
M 
Value in terms of INR 
for point that can be 
availed towards 
redemption as per 
terms 
I*
L 1000 1050 1210 1265 1500 
        
N Cumulative INR for 
carry forward points 
K*
L 200 420 550 690 500 
*As  the balance  wellbeing points can be carried forward maximum up  to 3 years, after three years  they will 
become zero. 
Basic premium refers to the premium charged to the Insured Person (i.e. premium excluding GST) as 
mentioned on the policy schedule 
 
Terms and conditions for 360 wellbeing program 
 For health risk assessment [HRA] services availed through mobile application/online/ digital 
mode on IL Platform, you will be required to provide the details in order to establish authenticity 
and validity prior to availing such services. Any such information provided by the you in this 
regard shall be used solely for t he purpose of providing these wellbeing services and kept 
confidential with Us/Our Network Providers/Health Service Providers at all times.  
 You shall notify Us and submit the relevant documents, reports, receipts as and when required 
by us within 60 days of undertaking any wellbeing activity. 
 You agrees that choosing to utilize any of the wellbeing services or any information or advise 
rendered by Our Health Service Providers or Network Providers or Us will be solely at your own 
discretion and own risk and should not be, used to diagnose or identify treatment for a medical 
or mental health condition. 
 In case of expiry of policy, the wellness points may be carried forward for a period not exceeding 
three months 
 The points accrued shall be at periodic intervals at rates/amounts declared upfront at the 
commencement of the policy and shall not be linked to any dynamic factor such as interest 
rate.  
 All the communication related to the 360 wellbeing program point accrued, its redemption and 
associated reminders will be through the IL take care application. 
 IL Mobile application/digital platform is an insurance and wellness platform which helps the 
customers to check their policy details, downloading e-card, intimation and tracking of claims, 
locating network hospitals etc. It also offers tracking of wellness through various features such 
as steps taken, number of hours of sleep, active hours and stand hours tracking 

--- PAGE 40 ---

                                                                                                                                                       
                                                                                                                 UIN: ICIHLGP22083V022122 
 
40 
 
 There shall not be any cash reimbursement or redemption available against the wellbeing 
points accumulated by an Insured Person. 
 We or Our Health Service Providers or Our Network Providers do not warrant the validity, 
accuracy, completeness, safety, quality, or applicability of the content or anything said or written 
or any suggestions provided in the course of providing the wellbeing services.  
 We, Our group entities, or affiliates, their respective directors, officers, employees, agents, 
vendors, shall not be responsible for or liable for, any actions, claims, demands, losses, 
damages, costs, charges a nd expenses which you may claim to have suffered, sustained or 
incurred, as a result of any advice or information obtained by way of the wellbeing program or 
any actions chosen by you on the basis of such advice or information. 
 The 360 wellbeing program of fered is subject to revisions based on the insurance regulatory 
framework from time to time. 
 
 
Disclaimers 
 
 Choosing the option is purely on Insured Person’s discretion and at own risk.  
 The wellbeing program is intended to provide supportive information to you to improve well -being 
and habits through working towards obtaining a healthy lifestyle, and does not constitute medical 
advice and/or substitute  your visit/ consultation to an independent Medical Practitioner.  
 We reserve the right to remove or reduce 360 wellbeing points  in case the same have been found 
to be achieved in any unfair manner by manipulation   
Availing the service provided by our Health Service Prov iders / Network Provider is at your sole 
discretion and We are not liable, responsible or deemed to be liable or responsible for any discrepancy 
in the information or Medical Advice provided 
 
29 Critical illness Cover 
If You are first Diagnosed with any one of the Critical Illnesses listed below during the Period of Cover, 
then We will pay the Sum Insured specified in the Policy schedule/Key Information Sheet against this 
Benefit as a lump sum amount, in the manner specified in the Policy schedule/Key Information Sheet, 
provided that the signs or symptoms of such Critical Illness first commence after 90 days from the Risk 
Inception Date.  
 
On the acceptance of a claim under this Benefit, the cover under this Benefit will terminate i n relation 
to you, and further no subsequent Renewals of this cover in the Policy will be allowed. 
 
International Second Opinion - In the event of  your  diagnosis  with any of the listed critical illness 
during the policy period , you can avail an E -Consultation second opinion from medical practitioner 
outside India  within our Network  with respect to the critical illness only, subject to the following 
conditions 
 
o It will be based on the medical records submitted by the insured person which should include 
investigation reports citing the final diagnosis and relevant consultation papers 
o The benefit can be availed only once by the insured person for the listed critical illness.  
o It should be only for medical reasons and not for medico-legal purposes. 
o We do not assume any liability and shall not be deemed to assume any liability towards any 
loss or damage arising out of or in relation to any opinion, advice, prescription, actual or 
alleged errors, omissions and representations made by the Medical Practitioner.  
 
S. No. Body system 
Heart and vascular conditions 

--- PAGE 41 ---

                                                                                                                                                       
                                                                                                                 UIN: ICIHLGP22083V022122 
 
41 
 
1 Myocardial Infarction 
2 Refractory heart failure 
3 Cardiomyopathy 
Lung Conditions 
4 End stage lung Failure 
5 Primary(Idiopathic) pulmonary Hypertension 
Liver conditions 
6 End stage liver Failure 
Neuro/ spinal & psychiatric disease 
7 Multiple sclerosis with Persisting symptoms 
8 Motor neuron disease with Permanent symptoms 
9 Permanent paralysis of limbs 
10 Stroke resulting in permanent symptoms 
11 Coma of specified severity 
12 Alzheimer’s Disease 
13 Parkinson’s disease 
14 Apallic syndrome 
15 Benign brain tumour 
16 Creutzfeldt-jakob disease (CJD) 
17 Major head trauma 
Renal diseases 
18 Kidney failure requiring regular dialysis 
19 Medullary cystic disease 
Musculoskeletal diseases 
20 Muscular dystrophy 
21 Poliomyelitis 
Bleeding disorders 
22 Aplastic Anemia  
Auto immune diseases 
23 Systemic Lupus Erythematosus with renal involvement 
24 Myasthenia gravis 
25 Scleroderma 
26 Good pastures syndrome with lung or renal involvement 
Others 
27 Blindness 
28 Deafness 
29 Cancer of specified severity 
30 Third Degree Burns 
31 Loss of speech 
32 Loss of limbs 
33 Loss of Independent Existence 
 
For the purpose of this policy, the Critical Illnesses listed above would have the meaning and 
exclusions, as specified below: 
 
1. MYOCARDIAL INFARCTION (First Heart Attack of specific severity) 
 

--- PAGE 42 ---

                                                                                                                                                       
                                                                                                                 UIN: ICIHLGP22083V022122 
 
42 
 
I. The first occurrence of heart attack or myocardial infarction, which means the death of a 
portion of the heart muscle as a result of inadequate blood supply to the relevant area. 
The diagnosis for Myocardial Infarction should be evidenced by all of the following criteria 
i. A history of typical clinical symptoms consistent with the diagnosis of acute myocardial 
infarction (For e.g. typical chest pain) 
ii. New  characteristic electrocardiogram changes 
iii. Elevation of infarction specific enzymes, Troponins or other specific biochemical markers 
 
II. The following are excluded: 
 
1. Other acute Coronary Syndromes 
2. Any type of angina pectoris 
3. A rise in cardiac biomarkers or Troponin T or I in absence of overt ischemic heart disease 
OR following an intra-arterial cardiac procedure. 
 
2. REFRACTORY HEART FAILURE 
Refractory heart failure is defined as a systolic dysfunction that does not respond to optimal 
medical therapy (“triple t herapy”) and results in permanent physical impairment to the degree of 
New York Heart Association Classification Class IV, or its equivalent, for at least six months. The 
diagnosis of refractory heart failure has to be supported by echocardiographic findin gs of 
compromised ventricular performance. The diagnosis must be made by a cardiology specialist.  
The following is excluded: 
1. Reversible causes of heart failure such as hypocalcemia, alcohol abuse, thyroid, anaemia. 
 
3. CARDIOMYOPATHY 
An impaired function of the heart muscle, which is unequivocally diagnosed as Cardiomyopathy 
by a registered Medical Practitioner who is a cardiologist, and which results in permanent physical 
impairment to the degree of New York Heart Association classification Class IV, or its equivalent, 
for at least six (6) months based on the following classification criteria: 
  
Class IV - Inability to carry out any activity without discomfort. Symptoms of congestive cardiac 
failure are present even at rest. With any increase in physical a ctivity discomfort will be 
experienced. The diagnosis of Cardiomyopathy has to be supported by Echographic findings of 
compromised ventricular performance.  
Irrespective of the above, Cardiomyopathy directly related to alcohol or drug abuse is excluded. 
 
4. END STAGE LUNG FAILURE 
  
I. End stage lung disease, causing chronic respiratory failure, as confirmed and evidenced by all 
of the following: 
 
1. FEV1 test results consistently less than 1 litre measured on 3 occasions 3 months apart; 
and 
2. Requiring continuous permanent supplementary oxygen therapy for hypoxemia; and  
3. Arterial blood gas analysis with partial oxygen pressure of 55mmHg or less (PaO2 < 
55mmHg); and 
4. Dyspnoea at rest. 
 
5. PRIMARY (IDIOPATHIC) PULMONARY HYPERTENSION 
 

--- PAGE 43 ---

                                                                                                                                                       
                                                                                                                 UIN: ICIHLGP22083V022122 
 
43 
 
I. An unequivocal diagnosis of Prim ary (Idiopathic) Pulmonary Hypertension by a Cardiologist or 
specialist in respiratory medicine with evidence of right ventricular enlargement and the 
pulmonary artery pressure above 30 mm of Hg on Cardiac Cauterization. There must be 
permanent irreversible physical impairment to the degree of at least Class IV of the New York 
Heart Association Classification of cardiac impairment. 
 
II. The NYHA Classification of Cardiac Impairment are as follows: 
 
1. Class III: Marked limitation of physical activity. Comfortable at rest, but less than ordinary 
activity causes symptoms. 
2. Class IV: Unable to engage in any physical activity without discomfort. Symptoms may be 
present even at rest. 
 
III. Pulmonary hypertension associated with lung disease, chronic hypoventi lation, pulmonary 
thromboembolic disease, drugs and toxins, diseases of the left side of the heart, congenital 
heart disease and any secondary cause are specifically excluded 
 
6. END STAGE LIVER FAILURE 
 
I. Permanent and irreversible failure of liver function that has resulted in all three of the following: 
 
1. Permanent jaundice; and 
2. Ascites; and 
3. Hepatic encephalopathy. 
 
II. Liver failure secondary to drug or alcohol abuse is excluded. 
 
7. MULTIPLE SCLEROSIS WITH PERSISTING SYMPTOMS 
 
I. The unequivocal diagnosis of Definite Multiple Sclerosis confirmed and evidenced by all of the 
following: 
 
1. Investigations including typical MRI findings which unequivocally confirm the diagnosis to 
be multiple sclerosis and 
2. There must be current clinical impairment of motor or sensory  function, which must have 
persisted for a continuous period of at least 6 months. 
 
II. Other causes of neurological damage such as SLE and HIV are excluded.  
8. MOTOR NEURON DISEASE WITH PERMANENT SYMPTOMS 
  
I. Motor neuron disease diagnosed by a specialist medical practitioner as spinal muscular atrophy, 
progressive bulbar palsy, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis or primary lateral sclerosis. There must 
be progressive degeneration of corticospinal tracts and anterior horn cells or bulbar efferent 
neurons. There m ust be current significant and permanent functional neurological impairment 
with objective evidence of motor dysfunction that has persisted for a continuous period of at least 
3 months. 
 
 
9. PERMANENT PARALYSIS OF LIMBS 
Total and irreversible loss of use of two or more limbs as a result of injury or disease of the brain 
or spinal cord. A specialist medical practitioner must be of the opinion that the paralysis will be 
permanent with no hope of recovery and must be present for more than 3 months.  

--- PAGE 44 ---

                                                                                                                                                       
                                                                                                                 UIN: ICIHLGP22083V022122 
 
44 
 
 
10. STROKE RESULTING IN PERMANENT SYMPTOMS 
 
I. Any cerebrovascular incident producing permanent neurological sequelae. This includes 
infarction of brain tissue, thrombosis in an intracranial vessel, haemorrhage and embolisation 
from an extracranial source. Diagnosis has t o be confirmed by a specialist medical practitioner 
and evidenced by typical clinical symptoms as well as typical findings in CT Scan or MRI of the 
brain. Evidence of permanent neurological deficit lasting for at least 3 months has to be produced. 
 
II. The following are excluded: 
 
1. Transient ischemic attacks (TIA) 
2. Traumatic injury of the brain 
3. Vascular disease affecting only the eye or optic nerve or vestibular functions.  
 
 
11. COMA OF SPECIFIED SEVERITY 
 
I.  A state of unconsciousness with no reaction or response to external stimuli or internal needs. 
This diagnosis must be supported by evidence of all of the following: 
 
1. No response to external stimuli continuously for at least 96 hours; 
2. Life support measures are necessary to sustain life; and 
3. Permanent neurological deficit which must be assessed at least 30 days after the onset of 
the coma. 
 
II. The condition has to be confirmed by a specialist medical practitioner. Coma resulting directly 
from alcohol or drug abuse is excluded. 
 
12. ALZHEIMER’S DISEASE 
 
Progressive and permanent deterioration of memory and intellectual capacity as evidenced by 
accepted standardised questionnaires and cerebral imaging.  
 
The diagnosis of Alzheimer’s Disease must be confirmed by an  appropriate consultant and 
supported by a Medical Practitioner appointed by Us. There must be significant reduction in mental 
and social functioning requiring the continuous supervision of the Insured Person. There must also 
be an inability of the Insured  Person to perform (whether aided or unaided) at least three of the 
Activities of Daily Living, for a continuous period of at least 3 months: 
 
For the purpose of this clause, Activities of Daily Living are defined as:  
 
1. Washing – the ability to wash in the bath or shower (including getting into and out of the bath 
or shower) or wash satisfactorily by other means; 
2. Dressing – the ability to put on, take off, secure and unfasten all garments and, as 
appropriate, any braces, artificial limbs or other surgical appliances; 
3. Transferring – the ability to move from a bed to an upright chair or wheelchair and vice versa; 
4. Toileting – the ability to use the lavatory or otherwise manage bowel and bladder functions 
so as to maintain a satisfactory level of personal hygiene; 
5. Feeding – the ability to feed oneself once food has been prepared and made available.  
6. Mobility - the ability to move from room to room without requiring any physical assistance.  
 
The following are excluded:  
 

--- PAGE 45 ---

                                                                                                                                                       
                                                                                                                 UIN: ICIHLGP22083V022122 
 
45 
 
• Any other type of irreversible organic disorder/dementia 
• Alcohol-related brain damage. 
 
 
13. PARKINSON’S DISEASE 
 
I. The occurrence of Parkinson’s Disease where there is an associated Neurological Deficit that results 
in permanent inability to perform independently at least three of  the Activities of Daily Living, for a 
continuous period of at least 3 months: 
 
For the purpose of this clause, Activities of Daily Living are defined as:  
 
1. Washing: the ability to wash in the bath or shower (including getting into and out of the bath or  
shower) or wash satisfactorily by other means 
2. Dressing: the ability to put on, take off, secure and unfasten all garments and, as appropriate, 
any braces, artificial limbs or other surgical appliances; 
3. Transferring: the ability to move from a bed to an upright chair or wheelchair and vice versa; 
4. Mobility: the ability to move indoors from room to room on level surfaces; 
5. Toileting: the ability to use the lavatory or otherwise manage bowel and bladder functions so as 
to maintain a satisfactory level of personal hygiene; 
6. Feeding: the ability to feed oneself once food has been prepared and made available.  
 
The following is excluded:  
 
 Parkinson’s Disease accompanied with drug and/or alcohol abuse. 
 
14. APALLIC SYNDROME 
Universal non -functioning of the brain cortex, with the brain stem intact. Diagnosis of Apallic 
Syndrome must be definitely confirmed by a registered Medical Practitioner who is also a 
neurologist and substantiated by clinical and investigation findings. T his condition must be 
documented for a continuous period of at least one month.  
 
15. BENIGN BRAIN TUMOR 
I. Benign brain tumor is defined as a life threatening, non -cancerous tumor in the brain, cranial 
nerves or meninges within the skull. The presence of the underlying tumor must be confirmed 
by imaging studies such as CT scan or MRI. 
 
II. This brain tumor must result in at least one of the following and must be confirmed by the 
relevant medical specialist. 
 
1. Permanent Neurological deficit with persisting clinical symptoms for a continuous period 
of at least 90 consecutive days or 
2. Undergone surgical resection or radiation therapy to treat the brain tumor.  
 
III. The following conditions are excluded: 
 
Cysts, Granulomas, malformations in the arteries or veins of the brain, hematomas, abscesses, 
pituitary tumors, tumors of skull bones and tumors of the spinal cord. 
 
16. CREUTZFELDT-JAKOB DISEASE (CJD) 
A diagnosis of Creutzfeldt Jakob Disease must be made by a specialist Medical Practitioner who 
is a neurologist and the diagnosis must be substantiated by CSF examination, EEG, CT Brain and 

--- PAGE 46 ---

                                                                                                                                                       
                                                                                                                 UIN: ICIHLGP22083V022122 
 
46 
 
MRI of the brain. There must be permanent clinical loss of the ability in mental, physical and social 
functioning for a minimum period of 30 days to the extent that permanent supervision or assistance 
by a third party is required 
 
17. MAJOR HEAD TRAUMA 
I. Accidental head injury resulting in permanent Neurological deficit to be assessed no sooner 
than 3 months from the date of the accident. This diagnosis must be supported by unequivocal 
findings on Magnetic Resonance Imaging, Computerized Tomography, or other reliable imaging 
techniques. The accident must be caused solely and directly by accidental, violent, external and 
visible means and independently of all other causes 
 
II. The Acciden tal Head injury must result in an inability to perform at least three (3) of the 
following Activities of Daily Living either with or without the use of mechanical equipment, special 
devices or other aids and adaptations in use for disabled persons. For the purpose of this Benefit, 
the word “permanent” shall mean beyond the scope of recovery with current medical knowledge 
and technology. 
 
III. The Activities of Daily Living are: 
 
I. Washing: the ability to wash in the bath or shower (including getting into and out of the 
bath or shower) or wash satisfactorily by other means; 
II. Dressing: the ability to put on, take off, secure and unfasten all garments and, as 
appropriate, any braces, artificial limbs or other surgical appliances; 
III. Transferring: the ability to move from a bed to an upright chair or wheelchair and vice 
versa; 
IV. Mobility: the ability to move indoors from room to room on level surfaces;  
V. Toileting: the ability to use the lavatory or otherwise manage bowel and bladder functions 
so as to maintain a satisfactory level of personal hygiene; 
VI. Feeding: the ability to feed oneself once food has been prepared and made available.  
 
IV. The following is excluded: 
i. Spinal cord injury; 
 
18. KIDNEY FAILURE REQUIRING REGULAR DIALYSIS 
 
I. End stage renal disease presenting as chronic irreversible failure of both kidneys to function, as 
a result of which either regular renal dialysis (haemodialysis or peritoneal dialysis) is instituted or 
renal transplantation is carried out. Diagnosis has to be confirmed by a specialist medical  
practitioner. 
 
19. MEDULLARY CYSTIC DISEASE 
   
I. Medullary Cystic Disease where the following criteria are met: 
i. The presence in the kidney of multiple cysts in the renal medulla accompanied by the 
presence of tubular atrophy and interstitial fibrosis; 
ii. Clinical manifestations of anaemia, polyuria, and progressive deterioration in kidney 
function; and 
iii. The diagnosis of Medullary Cystic Disease is confirmed by renal biopsy along with 
specialist Medical Practitioner opinion. 
 
II. The following are excluded 
 
i. Isolated or benign kidney cysts are specifically excluded from this Benefit 
ii. Any condition is which cysts are absent 

--- PAGE 47 ---

                                                                                                                                                       
                                                                                                                 UIN: ICIHLGP22083V022122 
 
47 
 
 
20. MUSCULAR DYSTROPHY 
Diagnosis of muscular dystrophy by a registered Medical Practitioner who is a neurologist based 
on the presence of following conditions: 
 
1. Clinical presentation including weakness and loss of muscle mass, absence of sensory 
disturbance, normal cerebrospinal fluid and mild tendon reflex reduction; 
2. Characteristic electromyogram 
3. Clinical suspicion confirmed by muscle biopsy. 
 
The condition must result in the inability of the Insured Person to perform (whether aided or 
unaided) at least three of the Activities of Daily Living, for a continuous period of at least 6 months. 
 
For the purpose of this clause, Activities of Daily Living are defined as: 
 
1. Washing – the ability to wash in the bath or shower (including getting into and out of the bath or 
shower) or wash satisfactorily by other means; 
2. Dressing – the ability to put on, take off, secure and unfasten all garments and, as appropriate, 
any braces, artificial limbs or other surgical appliances; 
3. Transferring – the ability to move from a bed to an upright chair or wheelchair and vice versa;  
4. Toileting – the ability to use the lavatory or otherwise manage bowel and bladder functions so 
as to maintain a satisfactory level of personal hygiene; 
5. Feeding – the ability to feed oneself once food has been prepared and made available.  
6. Mobility - the ability to move from room to room without requiring any physical assist ance 
 
21. POLIOMYELITIS  
The occurrence of Poliomyelitis, where the following conditions are met: 
 
I. Poliovirus is identified as the cause through laboratory investigation 
II. Paralysis of the limb muscles or respiratory muscles must be present and persist for at 
least 3 months. 
 
The diagnosis of Poliomyelitis must be confirmed by a registered Medical Practitioner who is a 
neurologist. 
 
 
 
22. APLASTIC ANAEMIA  
Irreversible persistent bone marrow failure which results in anaemia, neutropenia and 
thrombocytopenia requiring treatment with at least two (2) of the following: 
 
1. Blood product transfusion; 
2. Marrow stimulating agents; 
3. Immunosuppressive agents; or 
4. Bone marrow transplantation. 
 
The diagnosis of Aplastic anaemia must be confirmed by a bone marrow biopsy. Atleast two of the 
following values should be present: 
 
1. Absolute Neutrophil count of 500 per cubic millimetre or less; 
2. Absolute Reticulocyte count of 20,000 per cubic millimetre or less; and 

--- PAGE 48 ---

                                                                                                                                                       
                                                                                                                 UIN: ICIHLGP22083V022122 
 
48 
 
3. Platelet count of 20,000 per cubic millimetre or less. 
 
 
23. Systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) with renal involvement 
I. Multi -system, autoimmune disorder characterized by the development of auto -antibodies, 
directed against various self-antigens. For purposes of the definition of “SLE” under this policy 
is restricted to only those forms of systemic lupus erythematosus, w hich involve the kidneys 
and are characterized as Class III, Class IV, Class V or Class VI lupus nephritis under the 
Abbreviated International Society of Nephrology/Renal Pathology Society (ISN/RPS) 
classification of lupus nephritis (2003) below based on renal biopsy.  
Diagnosis by a nephrologist, supported by renal biopsy report is mandatory. There must be 
positive antinuclear antibody test 
II. The following are excluded 
 
i. Other forms such as discoid lupus, and those forms with only hematological and joint 
involvement are specifically excluded.  
ii. Class I - Minimal mesangial lupus nephritis 
iii. Class II - Mesangial proliferative lupus nephritis 
 
24. MYASTHENIA GRAVIS 
I. An acquired autoimmune disorder of neuromuscular transmission leading to fluctuating muscle 
weakness and fatigability, where all of the following criteria are met: 
1. Presence of permanent muscle weakness categorized as Class IV or V according to the 
Myasthenia Gravis Foundation of America Clinical Classification below; and 
2. The diagnosis of Myasthenia Gravis and categorization are confirmed by a registered 
Medical Practitioner who is a neurologist. 
Myasthenia Gravis Foundation of America Clinical Classification is as follows: 
Class I: Any eye muscle weakness, possible ptosis, no other evidence of muscle weakness 
elsewhere. 
Class II: Eye muscle weakness of any severity, mild weakness of other muscles.  
Class III: Eye muscle weakness of any severity, moderate weakness of other muscles. 
Class IV: Eye muscle weakness of any severity, severe weakness of other muscles.  
Class V: Intubation needed to maintain airway. 
 
II. The following are excluded: 
 
1. Congenital myasthenic syndrome 
2. Transient neonatal or juvenile myasthenia gravis 
 
25. SCLERODERMA 
A systemic collagen-vascular Illness causing progressive diffuse fibrosis in the skin, blood vessels 
and visceral organs. This diagnosis must be unequivocally supported by biopsy and serological 
evidence and the disorder must have reached syste mic proportions to involve the heart, lungs or 
kidneys. 
The following conditions are excluded: 
1. Localised scleroderma (linear scleroderma or morphea); 

--- PAGE 49 ---

                                                                                                                                                       
                                                                                                                 UIN: ICIHLGP22083V022122 
 
49 
 
2. Eosinophilic fascitis; and 
3. CREST syndrome. 
 
26. GOOD PASTURES SYNDROME with lung or renal involvement 
Goodpastures Syndrome is an autoimmune disease in which antibodies attack the lungs and 
kidneys, leading to permanent lung and kidney damage. The permanent damage should be for 
continuous period of at least 30 days. The diagnosis must be proven by kidney b iopsy and 
confirmed by a specialist Medical Practitioner who is a rheumatologist. 
27. BLINDNESS 
 
I. Total, permanent and irreversible loss of all vision in both eyes as a result of illness or accident.  
 
II. The Blindness is evidenced by: 
 
1. Corrected visual acuity being 3/60 or less in both eyes or ; 
2. The field of vision being less than 10 degrees in both eyes. 
 
III. The diagnosis of blindness must be confirmed and must not be correctable by aids or surgical 
procedure. 
 
28. DEAFNESS 
 
I. Total and irreversible loss of hearing in both ears as a result of illness or accident. This diagnosis 
must be supported by pure tone audiogram test and certified by an Ear, Nose and Throat (ENT) 
specialist. Total means “the loss of hearing to the extent that the loss is greater than 90 decibels 
across all frequencies of hearing” in both ears. 
 
29. CANCER OF SPECIFIED SEVERITY 
 
I. A malignant tumour characterized by the uncontrolled growth & spread of malignant cells with 
invasion & destruction of normal tissues. This diagnosis must be supported by histological 
evidence of malignancy. The term cancer includes leukemia, lymphoma and sarcoma . 
 
II. The following are excluded – 
i. All tumors which are histologically described as carcinoma in situ, benign, pre -malignant, 
borderline malignant, lo w malignant potential, neoplasm of unknown behavior, or non -
invasive, including but not limited to: Carcinoma in situ of breasts, Cervical dysplasia CIN -
1, CIN 2 and CIN-3 
ii. Any non-melanoma skin carcinoma unless there is evidence of metastases to lymph nodes 
or beyond; 
iii. Malignant melanoma that has not caused invasion beyond the epidermis;  
iv. All tumours of the prostate unless histologically classified as having a Gleason score greater 
than 6 or having progressed to at least clinical TNM classification T2N0M0 
v. All Thyroid cancers histologically classified as T1N0M0 (TNM Classification) or below  
vi. Chronic lymphocytic leukaemia less than RAI stage 3  
vii. Non-invasive papillary cancer of the bladder histologically described as TaN0M0 or of a 
lesser classification, 
viii. All Gastro -Intestinal Stromal Tumors histologically classified as T1N0M0 (TNM 
Classification) or below and with mitotic count of less than or equal to 5/50 HPFs;   
ix. All tumors in the presence of HIV infection.  
 
 

--- PAGE 50 ---

                                                                                                                                                       
                                                                                                                 UIN: ICIHLGP22083V022122 
 
50 
 
30. THIRD DEGREE BURNS 
 
There must be third-degree burns with scarring that cover at least 20% of the body’s surface area. 
The diagnosis must confirm the total area involved using standardized, clinically accepted, body 
surface area charts covering 20% of the body surface area. 
 
 
31. LOSS OF SPEECH 
 
I. Total and irrecoverable loss of the ability to speak as a result of injury or disease to the vocal 
cords. The inability to speak must be established for a continuous period of 12 months. This 
diagnosis must be supported by medical evidence furnished by an Ear, Nose, throat (ENT) 
specialist. 
 
II. All psychiatric related causes are excluded. 
 
32. LOSS OF LIMBS 
 
The physical separation of two or more limbs, at or above the wrist or ankle level as a result of injury 
or disease. This will include medically necessary amputation necessitated by injury or disease. The 
separation has to be permanent without any chance of surgical correction. Loss of Limbs resulting 
directly or indirectly from self-inflicted injury, alcohol or drug abuse is excluded. 
 
33. LOSS OF INDEPENDENT EXISTENCE 
 
Confirmation by a Consultant Physician of the loss of independent existence due to illness or 
trauma, lasting for a minimum period of 6 months and resulting in a permanent inability to perform 
at least three of the Activities of Daily Living, with no hope of recovery 
 
For the purpose of this clause, Activities of Daily Living are defined as:  
 
1. Washing – the ability to wash in the bath or shower (including getting into and out of the bath 
or shower) or wash satisfactorily by other means; 
2. Dressing – the ability to put on, take off, secure and unfasten all garments and, as 
appropriate, any braces, artificial limbs or other surgical appliances; 
3. Transferring – the ability to move from a bed to an upright chair or wheelchair and vice versa; 
4. Toileting – the ability to use the lavatory or otherwise manage bowel and bladder functions 
so as to maintain a satisfactory level of personal hygiene; 
5. Feeding – the ability to feed oneself once food has been prepared and made available.  
6. Mobility - the ability to move from room to room without requiring any physical assistance.  
 
 
 
Exclusions  
 
We shall not be liable to make any payment for any claim under Critical illness cover  of this Policy in 
respect of an Insured Person, directly or indirectly for, caused by, arising from or in any way attributable 
to any of the following: 
 
1. Any Critical Illness where the symptoms indicative of such Critical Illness have first 
manifested or first occurred prior to the Risk Inception Date or arisen within first 90 days 
of commencement of the Period of Cover. 
 

--- PAGE 51 ---

                                                                                                                                                       
                                                                                                                 UIN: ICIHLGP22083V022122 
 
51 
 
2. Any Critical Illness arising on account of or in connection with any Pre-Existing Disease(s). 
 
3. Any Critical Illness arising out of any Congenital Anomaly of the Insured Person.  
 
4. Any physical, medical or mental condition or treatment or service that is specifically 
excluded in the Policy schedule under the head “Special Conditions”. 
 
5. Any claim made without a medical certificate from the tre ating Medical Practitioner 
evidencing the diagnosis of such Critical Illness. 
 
6. Any Critical Illness traceable to pregnancy, childbirth, abortion, or related consequences.  
 
On the occurrence of an Insured Event which may give rise to a claim under this Benefit, We shall be 
provided with the necessary and mandatory information specified in “A” for all claims, and additional 
documentation specified in “B” in relation to the particular Critical Illness being claimed, within 30 days 
of occurrence of the Insured Event: 
  
A: Common documents required for all claims under this Benefit: 
1.  Claim Form duly filled and signed by Insured Person/Nominee/claimant  
2.  EMS Paper 
3.  Discharge Card/Summary papers 
4.  Indoor Case papers 
5.  Hospital Bills  
6.  All Investigation Reports – blood, pathology, radiology, etc.  
7.  Certificate by treating Medical Practitioner confirming diagnosis 
8.  Current and past consultation papers  
9.  Certificate of Medical Cause of Death issued by last attending Medical Practitioner (wherever 
applicable) 
10.  Certificate from last attending Medical Practitioner /medical authority for underlying medical 
condition/s leading to death of the Insured Person 
11.  Post Mortem Report, FSL Report, Viscera and Chemical Analysis Report, Histopathoilogy Report 
(wherever applicable) 
12.  Any other specific investigation / document to support the diagnosis of such Critical Illness, as may 
be reasonably required by Us in addition to the documents specified under this Section. 
  
B: Specific documentation for specified Critical Illnesses,  
 
(To be furnished in addition to the common documents specified in A above.)  
 S. 
No. 
Name of Critical 
Illness CI specific documents 
 Heart and vascular conditions 
 1 Myocardial Infarction 
All ECGs, Stress Test, 2D Echo, X-Ray Chest, Cardiac Enzymes 
(Trop. T, Trop. I, CPK, CPK-MB, LDH,  
S. Electrolytes), Thallium Scan  
 2 Refractory heart 
failure 
 3 Cardiomyopathy 
 Lung Conditions 
 4 End stage lung 
disease 
All Pulmonary Function Tests, Chest CT Scan (HRCT), 
Bronchoscopy, ABG, ECGs, Stress Test, 2D Echo, X-Ray Chest 

--- PAGE 52 ---

                                                                                                                                                       
                                                                                                                 UIN: ICIHLGP22083V022122 
 
52 
 
 5 Primary pulmonary 
Hypertension 
 Liver conditions 
 
6 End stage liver 
disease 
Reports pertaining to all Liver Function Tests, USG Abdomen, CT 
Scan of Abdomen, Liver Biopsy, all other pathological tests, Ascitic 
Tapping report, 
 Neurological / spinal disease 
 
7 Multiple sclerosis 
CT Scan(s) and MRI(s), Visual Evoked Potentials report, EEG, 
EMG, nerve conduction studies, CSF evaluation , , , , Certificate 
from Neurologist confirming diagnosis 
 
8 Motor neuron 
disease 
CT Scan(s) and MRI(s), EEG, EMG, pathological tests, Nerve 
Conduction studies CSF evaluation, Muscle Biopsy, Certificate from 
Neurologist confirming diagnosis 
 
9 Permanent paralysis 
of limbs 
CT Scan(s) and MRI(s), EEG, EMG, , Certificate from Civil Surgeon 
confirming disability, Consultation papers from 
the Treating Neurologist stating the Neurological deficit and 
the degree/current neurological status and duration of the Paralysis, 
Consultation papers from 
the Treating Neurologist stating the Neurological deficit and 
the degree/current neurological status at the end of 3 months of date 
of diagnosis 
 
10 Stroke with 
neurological deficit 
CT Scan(s) and MRI(s), EEG, EMG, pathological tests, Certificate 
of diagnosis from treating Neurologist Consultation papers from 
the Treating Neurologist stating the Neurological deficit and 
the degree/current neurological status, Consultation papers from 
the Treating Neurologist stating the Neurological deficit and 
the degree/current neurological status at the end of 3 months of date 
of diagnosis 
 
11 Coma of specified 
severity 
CT Scan(s) and MRI(s), EEG, EMG, pathological tests, Certificate 
of diagnosis from treating Neurologist, Consultation papers from 
the Treating Neurologist stating the Neurological status, 
Consultation papers from 
the Treating Neurologist stating the Neurological status at the end of 
96 hours of date of diagnosis 
 
12 Alzheimer’s Disease 
CT Scan(s) and MRI(s), EEG, EMG, pathological tests, 
Neuropsychological Tests, Certificate of diagnosis and neurological 
status from treating Neurologist 
 
13 Parkinson’s disease CT Scan(s) and MRI(s), EEG, EMG, pathological tests, Certificate 
of diagnosis and neurological status from treating Neurologist 
 
14 Apallic syndrome 
CT Scan(s) and MRI(s), EEG, EMG, pathological tests, PET Scan, 
Certificate of diagnosis and neurological status from treating 
Neurologist 
 
15 Benign brain tumour 
CT Scan(s) and MRI(s), pathological tests, Histopathology / 
Cytology / FNAC / Biopsy / Immuno-histochemistry 
reports, Certificate of diagnosis from treating Neurologist / 
Neurosurgeon stating neurological deficit, Subsequent details of the 
treatment with the consultation papers from 
the inception of ailment 
 
16 Creutzfeldt-Jakob 
disease (CJD) 
Electroencephalography, CSF Analysis, MRI Certificate of diagnosis 
from treating Neurologist, brain biopsy / histopathological 
examination of brain tissue at the time of autopsy 
 
17 Major head trauma 
CT Scan(s) and MRI(s), EEG, EMG, pathological tests, Certificate 
of diagnosis and neurological status from treating Neurologist, 
Consultation papers from 
the Treating Neurologist stating the Neurological deficit and 

--- PAGE 53 ---

                                                                                                                                                       
                                                                                                                 UIN: ICIHLGP22083V022122 
 
53 
 
the degree/current neurological status at the end of 3 months of date 
of diagnosis  
 Renal diseases 
 
18 
Kidney failure 
requiring regular 
dialysis 
Complete Renal Profile, S. Uric Acid, Urine Routine, S. creatinine, 
creatinine clearance, Urine Microscopy, 24 hour Urine Analysis, 
USG Abdomen Pelvis, CT Scan Abdomen Pelvis, Renal Biopsy, 
Dialysis Papers/Receipts done in recent past  19 Medullary cystic 
disease 
 Musculoskeletal diseases 
 
20 Muscular dystrophy 
Creatinine Kinase, ECG, 2D Echo Pulmonary Function Tests, EMG, 
nerve conduction studies, Muscle Biopsy, Certificate of diagnosis 
and neurological status from treating Neurologist 
 
21 Poliomyelitis Throat Sawb / Stool / CSF Examination for Poliovirus, Certificate 
from Civil Surgeon certifying Diagnosis and Disability 
 Bleeding disorders 
 
22 Aplastic Anaemia  
CBC, Renal Function Test, Liver Function Test, S Electrolytes, 
Thyroid Function Test, Vitamin B12, Folic Acid levels, Bone Marrow 
Aspiration Biopsy, Autoimmune workup, certificate from 
hematologist confirming the diagnosis 
 Auto immune diseases 
 
23 SLE with renal 
involvement 
ANA Antibodies, Anti -ENA Antibodies, Complete Renal Profile, S. 
Uric Acid, Urine Routine, Urine Microscopy, 24 hour Urine Analysis, 
USG Abdomen Pelvis, CT Scan Abdomen Pelvis, Renal Biopsy 
 
24 Myasthenia gravis 
Nerve stimulation tests, Tensilon test, Autoimmune workup, X Ray 
Chest, High resolution CT , EMG, Certificate of diagnosis from 
treating physician 
 
25 Scleroderma 
Autoimmune workup, ANA, Renal Function Test, Urine Routine & 
Microscopy, USG Abdomen Pelvis, Renal Biopsy, Pulmonary 
Function Tests, X ray Chest/HRCT, Lung Biopsy, ECG, 2D Echo, 
CAG 
 
26 
Good pastures 
syndrome with lung 
or renal involvement 
Autoimmune workup, Anti -GBM antibody testing, ANCA, Renal 
Function Test, Urine Routine & Microscopy, USG Abdomen Pelvis, 
Renal Biopsy, Pulmonary Function Tests, X ray Chest/HRCT, Lung 
Biopsy 
 Others 
 27 Complete loss of 
vision(Blindness) 
Visual Field Testing, Vision Acuity Testing, Certificate from Civil 
Surgeon confirming the diagnosis and disability 
 
28 
Complete loss of 
hearing 
ability(Deafness) 
Audiometry Tests, Certificate from Civil Surgeon confirming the 
diagnosis and disability 
 
29 Cancer of specified 
severity 
All histology/cytology/FNAC/Biopsy/Immuno-chemistry reports, X -
ray, CT Scan, MRI, PET Scan, Bone Marrow Test, Cancer Markers, 
all other pathological tests 
 
30 Burns 
MLC, FIR, Panchnama, Police Final Charge sheet, Post Mortem 
report, Certificate from attending physician certifying degree of burns 
along with the percentage of body surface involved 
 31 Loss of speech Bronchoscopy/Laryngoscopy, Certificate from Civil Surgeon 
confirming the diagnosis and disability 
 
32 Loss of limbs 
MLC, FIR, Panchnama, in case of accidental injury 
 
 

--- PAGE 54 ---

                                                                                                                                                       
                                                                                                                 UIN: ICIHLGP22083V022122 
 
54 
 
Certificate from civil surgeon confirming the diagnosis and disability 
 
33 Loss of Independent 
Existence 
Certificate from Medical Practitioner confirming Illness/injury and in 
ability to perform activities of Daily living 
 
 
 
30 Personal Accident Cover 
a) Death Benefit 
We will pay You or Your Nominee / legal heir, as the case may be, the Annual Sum Insured as 
specified against this benefit in the Policy Schedule/Key Information Sheet if you suffer an Injury 
due to an Accident that occurs during the Period of Cover and that Injury solely and directly 
results in the Insured Person’s death within 365 days from the date of the Accident.  
 
On the acceptance of a claim under this Benefit and any other ap plicable Benefit pertaining to 
the same event, all cover under this Policy shall immediately and automatically cease in respect 
of that Insured Person 
 
Claims Document required 
 Claim Form duly filled and signed by Nominee  
 MLC or FIR 
 Cause of Death Certificate and death certificate by municipal corporation 
 Post Mortem Report (certified copies) as applicable and wherever conducted 
 Viscera / Chemical Analysis / Forensic Report 
 Police Final Charge Sheet / Court Final Order 
 Spot / Inquest Panchnama certified copies  
 Indoor case papers 
 Any other document as may be required by Us 
 
 
b) Permanent Total Disablement (PTD) Benefit 
We will pay You or Your Nominee / legal heir, as the case may be, the Annual Sum Insured as 
specified against this benefit in the Policy Schedule/Key Information Sheet if you suffer from an 
Injury due to an Accident that occurs during the Period of Cover and that Injury solely and 
directly results in the Permanent Total Disablement of the Insured Person within 365 days from 
the date of the Accident. 
 
This Benefit shall be payable subject to the following  
 
i. If the Insured Person dies before a claim has been admitted under this Benefit, then no 
amount will be payable under this Benefit, but a claim will be considered under Death 
benefit, if in force for the Insured Person. 
ii. If the Insured Person suffers Injuries resulting in more than one of the Permanent Total 
Disablements, then Our maximum, total and cumulative liability under this Benefit shall 
be limited to the Sum Insured.  
iii. If We have admitted a claim for Permanent Total Disablement in accordance with this 
Benefit, then We shall not be liable to make any payment under the Policy under Death 
Benefit on the death of the Insured Person, if the Insured Person subsequently dies. 
However, any other applicable Benefits which may get triggered will be considered in 
accordance with the terms and conditions of the applicable Benefits. 
iv. We will only accept one claim under this Benefit in the lifetime of the Insured Person. 
On the acceptance of a claim under this Benefit, all cover under this Benefit in respect 
of the Insured Person shall immediately and automatically cease. 
 

--- PAGE 55 ---

                                                                                                                                                       
                                                                                                                 UIN: ICIHLGP22083V022122 
 
55 
 
On the acceptance of a claim under this Benefit, insurance cover under any other applicable 
Benefits under this Policy whether in the present Period of Cover or any subsequent Period of 
Cover shall continue subject to the availability of the Sum Insured and the terms, conditions 
and exclusions of the Policy. 
Claims Document Required 
 Claim form duly filled and signed by You 
 MLC or FIR 
 Police Final Charge Sheet / Court Final Order 
 Spot / Inquest Panchnama 
 Disability Certificate issued by civil or government hospital 
 Indoor case papers 
 Medical Certificate/Reports 
 Discharge certificate, Original bills and receipts form the hospital/Medical Practitioner 
 Photo of Insured Person showing the disability 
 Any other document as may be required by Us. 
 
 
c) Permanent Partial Disablement Benefit (PPD) 
We will pay the percentage of the Sum Insured (specified against this B enefit in the Policy 
Schedule/Key Information Sheet in the manner which is specified in the table below if you suffer 
an Injury due to an Accident that occurs during the Period of Cover and that Injury solely and directly 
results in the Permanent Partial Disablement of the Insured Person (which is of the nature specified 
in the table below) within 365 days from the date of the Accident. 
For the purpose of this Benefit, Permanent Partial Disablement means total and/or partial 
irrecoverable loss of use or the actual loss by physical separation of the body parts as specified in 
the table below:  
SR    
No. LOSSES COVERED 
% OF SUM 
INSURED 
payable  
1 Loss of one entire hand 70 
2 Loss of one entire foot 70 
3 Loss of use of one eye 50 
4 Loss of all toes  20 
5 Loss of great toe - both phalanges 5 
6 Loss of great toe - one phalanx 2 
7 Other than great toe if more than one toe lost each 5 
8 Loss of use of both ears 75 
9 Loss of use of one ear 30 
10 Loss of four fingers and thumb of one hand 40 
11 Loss of four fingers 35 
12 Loss of thumb - both phalanges 25 
13 Loss of thumb - one phalanx 10 
14 Loss of index finger - three phalanges 10 
15 Loss of index finger - two phalanges  8 
16 Loss of index finger - one phalanx  4 
17 Loss of middle finger - three phalanges 6 
18 Loss of middle finger - two phalanges 4 

--- PAGE 56 ---

                                                                                                                                                       
                                                                                                                 UIN: ICIHLGP22083V022122 
 
56 
 
19 Loss of middle finger - one phalanx 2 
20 Loss of ring finger  - three phalanges 5 
21 Loss of ring finger  - two phalanges 4 
22 Loss of ring finger  - one phalanx 2 
23 Loss of little finger - three phalanges 4 
24 Loss of little finger - two phalanges 3 
25 Loss of little finger - one phalanx 2 
26 Loss of metacarpus - first or second (additional) 3 
27 Loss of metacarpus - third, fourth or fifth (additional) 2 
 
This Benefit shall be payable subject to the following: 
i. If the Insured Person dies before a claim has been admitted under this Benefit, then no 
amount will be payable under this Benefit, but a claim will be considered under Death 
Benefit 
ii. If a claim is accepted under this Benefit in respect of an Insured Person and the amount 
due under this claim and claims already admitted under the Benefit in respect of the 
Insured Person will cumulatively lead to the Sum Insured being exceeded then Our 
maximum, total and cumulative liability under any and all such claims will be limited to 
the annual Sum Insured. 
iii. On the acceptance of a claim under this Benefit, the Insured Person’s insurance cover 
under this Benefit and the Policy shall continue, subject to the availability of the Annual 
Sum Insured and the terms, conditions and exclusions of this Policy. 
 
Claims Document required 
 Claim form duly filled and signed by You 
 MLC or FIR 
 Police Final Charge Sheet / Court Final Order 
 Spot / Inquest Panchnama 
 Disability Certificate issued by civil or government hospital 
 Indoor case papers 
 Medical Certificate 
 Photo of Insured Person showing the disability 
 Any other document as may be required by Us. 
 
 
 
EXCLUSIONS AND LIMITATIONS APPLICABLE TO DEATH BENEFIT, PERM ANENT TOTAL 
DISABLEMENT AND PERMANENT PARTIAL DISABLEMENT. 
We shall not be liable to make any payment for any claim under this cover in respect of an Insured 
Person, directly or indirectly for, caused by, arising from or in any way attributable to any of the 
following: 
1 War, invasion, act of foreign enemy hostilities or warlike operations (whether war be declared 
or not) or civil commotion or rebellion, revolution, insurrection, mutiny, arrests, detainments of 
all kinds and political gatherings, engaging in  aviation other than as a passenger (fare paying 
or otherwise) in any licensed standard type of aircraft 
 
2 Any Injury sustained while performing duty in army, navy, air force, paramilitary force, police or 
any other such institution. 

--- PAGE 57 ---

                                                                                                                                                       
                                                                                                                 UIN: ICIHLGP22083V022122 
 
57 
 
3 Any event which occurs whilst the Insured Person is operating or learning to operate any aircraft 
or common carrier, or performing duties as a member of the crew on any aircraft, or scheduled 
airlines or is engaging in aviation, or whilst the Insured Person is mounting into, or dismounting 
from or traveling in any balloon or aircraft other than as a passenger (fare-paying or otherwise) 
in any scheduled airline anywhere in the world. 
4 Breach of law or while being involved in any unlawful activity. 
5 Any Injury / Illness arising from intentional self- Injury, suicide or attempted suicide. 
6 Any Injury / Illness arising whilst under the influence of alcohol or intoxicating drugs or 
substance abuse of any kind. 
7 Any Injury / Illness occurring whilst working in underground mines or explosives magazines, or 
involving electrical installation with high tension supply, or as jockeys or circus personnel  
8 Any Accidental Injury / Illness directly or indirectly caused by venereal disease  
9 Injury sustained whilst engaging in Adventure Sports 
 
10 Any Injury that has occurred prior to the commencement of Policy of Cover whether or not the 
same has been treated, or medical advice, diagnosis, care or treatment has been sought  
 
11 Payment of compensation in respect of death, disablement (whether of a permanent na ture or 
of a temporary nature), Injury, Illness or Hospitalization of the Insured Person resulting directly 
from, or indirectly caused by, or contributed to or aggravated or prolonged by, childbirth or 
pregnancy or in consequence thereof.  
12 Payment of compensation in respect of death, disablement (whether of a permanent nature or 
of a temporary nature), Injury, Illness or Hospitalization of Insured Person due to animal or 
insect or reptile attack. 
13 Death, disablement (whether of a permanent nature or of a temporary nature), Injury, Illness or 
Hospitalization arising from or caused by ionizing radiation or contamination by radioactivity 
from any nuclear fuel (explosive or hazardous form) or resulting from or from any other cause 
or event contributing concurrently or in any other sequence to the loss, claim or expense from 
any nuclear waste from the combustion of nuclear fuel, nuclear, chemical or biological attack . 
 
 
31 Recovery Benefit  
In consideration of the payment of additional premium to us .We will pay the you 1% of Sum insured 
maximum up to Rs 50,000 as specified  against this Benefit in the Policy Schedule /Key Information 
Sheet, if you suffer an Injury due to an Accident that occurs during the Period of Cover and that 
solely and directly results in your hospitalization for at least 7 continuous days. 
 
This Benefit shall be payable subject to the following:  
i. We will accept multiple claims under this Benefit during the Peri od of Cover in respect of you . 
However Our maximum, total and cumulative liability fo r claims arising in respect to you under this 
Benefit during t he Period of Cover shall be 1% of Sum Insured  maximum up to Rs.50,000  as 
specified against this Benefit in the Policy Certificate.  

--- PAGE 58 ---

                                                                                                                                                       
                                                                                                                 UIN: ICIHLGP22083V022122 
 
58 
 
ii. We have accepted a claim under hospitalization expenses in respect to you for the same Accident 
for which this benefit is being availed. 
 
32 Mobility Benefit 
In consideration of the payment of additional premium to us  .We will pay  you 1% of sum insured 
maximum up to Rs.50,000  under this Benefit  to you towards modification of home, office and / or 
vehicle or towards purchase of an Artificial Limb or any prosthesis or any other expenses because 
of Permanent Total Disablement or Permanent Partial Disablement (which is only of the nature 
specified in the table below ) covering the disabilities mentioned in the table below suffered by the 
Insured Person. However, Our liability for payment of all claims under this Benefit in aggregate for 
Period of Cover shall in no case exceed the Sum Insured for this Benefit as specifie d in the Policy 
schedule/Key Information Sheet. 
For the purpose of this Benefit, Permanent Partial Disablement means total and/or partial 
irrecoverable loss of use or the actual loss by physical separation of the body parts as specified in 
the table below:  
  Permanent Partial Disablement: 
LOSSES COVERED 
  One entire hand 
  One entire foot 
  Loss of Use of one eye 
  Loss of Use of both ears 
  Loss of four fingers and thumb of one hand 
 
This Benefit shall be payable subject to the following: 
a) We have accepted Your claim under PTD or PPD. 
b) We will only accept only one claim under this Benefit in your lifetime. On the acceptance of 
a claim under this Benefit, all cover under this Benefit in respect to you shall immediately 
and automatically cease but insurance cover under any other applicable Benefits under this 
Policy during the Period of Cover shall continue subject to the availability of the Sum Insured 
and the terms, conditions and exclusions of the Policy. 
c) The Modification of the house or vehicle are carried out to facilitate your activities of daily 
living. 
d) The modification is carried out in the house where you resides after injury. 
e) The vehicle should be the one which was being used by you before the occurrence of the 
injury 
f) The expenses are not related to the repair, renovation or improvisation of the existing 
establishment or vehicle 
g) The modification is carried out within three months form your intimation of claim. 
 
 
e)  EXCLUSIONS UNDER THE POLICY 
We will not be liable for any Deductible amount, if applicable and as specifically defined in the 
Policy Schedule under the Policy 

--- PAGE 59 ---

                                                                                                                                                       
                                                                                                                 UIN: ICIHLGP22083V022122 
 
59 
 
We shall not be liable to make any payment under this Policy in connection with or in respect of 
any expenses whatsoever incurred by You in connection with or in respect of: 
 
i. Standard Exclusions (Exclusions for which standard wordings are specified by 
IRDAI) 
 
 
3.1 Code- Excl01: Pre-Existing Diseases  
a) Expenses related to the treatment of a pre -existing Disease (PED) and its direct 
complications shall be excluded until the expiry of specified months of continuous 
coverage after the date of inception of the first policy with insurer. 
b) In case of enhancement of sum insured the exclusion shall apply afresh to the extent of 
sum insured increase. 
c) If the Insured Person is continuously covered without any break as defined under the 
portability norms of the extant IRDAI (Health  Insurance) Regulations, then waiting 
period for the same would be reduced to the extent of prior coverage  
d) Coverage un der the policy after the expiry of specified months for any pre -existing 
disease is subject to the same being declared at the time of application and accepted 
by Insurer. 
 
3.2 Code- Excl02: Specified disease/procedure waiting period 
a) Expenses related to the tre atment of the listed Conditions, surgeries/treatments shall 
be excluded until the expiry of specified months of continuous coverage after the date 
of inception of the first policy with us. This exclusion shall not be applicable for claims 
arising due to an accident. 
b) In case of enhancement of sum insured the exclusion shall apply afresh to the extent of 
sum insured increase. 
c) If any of the specified disease/procedure falls under the waiting period specified for pre-
Existing diseases, then the longer of the two waiting periods shall apply. 
d) The waiting period for listed conditions shall apply even if contracted after the policy or 
declared and accepted without a specific exclusion. 
 
e) If the Insured Person is continuously covered without any break as defined under  the 
applicable norms on portability stipulated by IRDAI, then waiting period for the same 
would be reduced to the extent of prior coverage. 
 
List of specific diseases/procedure: 
• Cataract 
• Benign Prostatic Hypertrophy 
• Myomectomy, Hysterectomy unless because of malignancy 
• All types of Hernia, Hydrocele 
• Fissures &/or Fistula in anus, hemorrhoids/piles 
• Arthritis, gout, rheumatism and spinal disorders 
• Joint replacements unless due to accident 
• Sinusitis and related disorders 
• Stones in the urinary and billiary systems 
• Dilatation and curettage , Endometriosis 
• All types of Skin and internal tumors/ cysts/nodules/ polyps of any kind including 
breast lumps unless malignant 
• Dialysis required for chronic renal failure 
• Surgery on tonsils, adenoids and sinuses 
• Gastric and Duodenal erosions & ulcers 

--- PAGE 60 ---

                                                                                                                                                       
                                                                                                                 UIN: ICIHLGP22083V022122 
 
60 
 
• Deviated Nasal Septum 
• Varicose Veins/ Varicose Ulcers 
• All types of internal congenital anomalies/ illness/defects such as but not limited to 
congenital heart disease like VSD, ASD, TOF,PDA, Cryptorchidism, Congenital 
hernia, Achalasia cardia, Spinal defects like spina bifida 
 
3.3  
a) Expenses related to the treatment of the below mentioned illness within 90 days from 
the first policy commencement date shall be excluded unless they are pre -existing 
and disclosed at the time of underwriting 
i. Hypertension 
ii. Diabetes 
iii. Cardiac Conditions 
b) This exclusion shall not, however, apply if the Insured Person has continuous 
coverage for more than twelve months. 
The within referred waiting period is made applicable to the enhanced sum insured in 
the event of granting higher sum insured subsequently. 
3.4  Code- Excl03:  0 or 30-day waiting period 
a) Expenses related to the treatment of any illness within 30 days from the first 
policy commencement date shall be excluded except claims arising due to an 
accident, provided the same are covered. 
b) This exclusion shall not, however, apply if the Insured Person has Continuous 
Coverage for more than twelve months. 
c) The within referred waiting period is made applicable to the enhanced sum 
insured in the event of granting higher sum insured subsequently. 
 
Permanent Exclusions 
i. Code- Excl04: Investigation & Evaluation 
a) Expenses related to any admission primarily for diagnostics and evaluation 
purposes only are excluded. 
b) Any diagnostic expenses which are not related or not incidental to the current 
diagnosis and treatment are excluded. 
 
ii. Code- Excl05: Exclusion Name: Rest Cure, rehabilitation and respite care 
a) Expenses related to any admission primarily for enforced bed rest and not for 
receiving treatment. This also includes: 
I. Custodial care either at home or in a nursing facility for personal care 
such as help with activities of daily living such as bathing, dressing, 
moving around either by skilled nurses or assistant or non -skilled 
persons. 
II. Any services for people who are terminally ill to address physical, 
social, emotional and spiritual needs. 
iii. Code- Excl06: Obesity/ Weight Control 
Expenses related to the surgical treatment of obesity that does not fulfil all the below 
conditions: 
1) Surgery to be conducted is upon the advice of the Doctor 
2) The surgery/Procedure conducted should be supported by clinical protocols  
3) The member has to be 18 years of age or older and 
4) Body Mass Index (BMI); 
5) greater than or equal to 40 or 

--- PAGE 61 ---

                                                                                                                                                       
                                                                                                                 UIN: ICIHLGP22083V022122 
 
61 
 
6) greater than or equal to 35 in conjunction with any of the foll owing severe co -
morbidities following failure of less invasive methods of weight loss:  
o Obesity-related cardiomyopathy 
o Coronary heart disease 
o Severe Sleep Apnea 
o Uncontrolled Type2 Diabetes 
 
iv. Code- Excl07:  Change of Gender treatments  
Expenses related to any  treatment, including surgical management, to change 
characteristics of the body to those of the opposite sex. 
 
v. Code- Excl08: Cosmetic or plastic Surgery 
Expenses for cosmetic or plastic surgery or any treatment to change appearance 
unless for reconstruction following an Accident, Burn(s) or Cancer or as part of 
medically necessary treatment to remove a direct and immediate health risk to the 
insured. For this to be considered a medical necessity, it must be certified by the 
attending Medical Practitioner. 
 
vi. Code- Excl09: Hazardous or Adventure sports 
Expenses related to any treatment necessitated due to participation as a professional 
in hazardous or adventure sports, including but not limited to, para -jumping, rock 
climbing, mountaineering, rafting, motor racing, horse racing or scuba diving, hand 
gliding, sky diving, deep-sea diving. 
 
vii. Code- Excl10: Breach of law 
Expenses for treatment directly arising from or consequent upon any Insured Person 
committing or attempting to commit a breach of law with criminal intent. 
 
viii. Code- Excl11: Excluded Providers 
Expenses incurred towards treatment in any hospital or by any Medical Practitioner or 
any other provider specifically excluded by the Insurer and disclosed in its website / 
notified to the policyho lders/proposers are not admissible.  However, in case of life 
threatening situations or following an accident, expenses up to the stage of stabilization 
are payable but not the complete claim. 
 
ix. Code- Excl12: Treatment for, Alcoholism, drug or substance abu se or any addictive 
condition and consequences thereof.  
 
x. Code- Excl13: Treatments   received   in   heath   hydros, nature   cure   clinics,   spas 
or similar establishments or private beds registered as a nursing home attached to such 
establishments or where admission is arranged wholly or partly for domestic reasons. 
 
xi. Code- Excl14: Dietary supplements and substances that can be purchased     without 
prescription, including  but  not  limited  to  Vitamins,  minerals  and  organic  substances  
unless prescribed by a medical practitioner as part of hospitalisation claim or day care 
procedure. 
 
xii. Code- Excl15: Refractive Error: Expenses related to the treatment for correction of eye 
sight due to refractive error less than 7.5 dioptres 
 

--- PAGE 62 ---

                                                                                                                                                       
                                                                                                                 UIN: ICIHLGP22083V022122 
 
62 
 
xiii. Code- Excl16: Unproven Treatments: Expenses  related  to  any  unproven  treatment,  
services  and  supplies  for  or  in connection with any treatment. Unproven treatments 
are treatments, procedures or supplies that lack significant medical documentation to 
support their effectiveness. 
  
xiv. Code- Excl17:  Sterility and Infertility:  Expenses related to, sterility and infertility. This 
includes: 
 
a) Any type of contraception, sterilization 
b) Assisted Reproduction services including artificial insemination and advanced 
reproductive technologies such as IVF, ZIFT, GIFT, ICSI 
c) Gestational Surrogacy 
d) Reversal of sterilization 
 
xv. Code- Excl18: Maternity: Medical treatment expenses traceable to childbirth (including 
complicated deliveries and caesarean sections incurred during hospitalisa tion) except 
ectopic pregnancy. Expenses towards miscarriage (unless due to an accident) and 
lawful medical termination of pregnancy during the policy period 
 
 
 
ii. Specific Exclusions (Exclusions other than those mentioned under e(i) above) 
Permanent Exclusions 
 
a) Any ailment / illness, injury, condition or treatment or service that is specifically 
excluded in the Policy Schedule under Special Conditions. 
 
b) Any expenses incurred on prosthesis, corrective devices, external durable medical 
equipment of any kind, like wheelchairs, crutches, instruments used in treatment of 
sleep apnoea syndrome or cost of cochlear implant(s) unless necessitated by an 
Accident or required intra-operatively. 
 
c) Expenses incurred on all dental treatment unless necessitated due to an Accident 
 
d) Personal comfort, cosmetics, convenience and hygiene related items and services  
 
e) Acupressure, acupuncture, magnetic and other therapies 
 
f) Circumcision unless necessary for treatment of an Illness or necessitated due to an 
Accident. Expenses for venereal disease or any sexually transmitted disease 
 
g) Treatment relating to birth defects and external congenital Illnesses or defects or 
anomalies such as but not limited to Cleft lip, Combination of cleft lip and cleft palate, 
Tongue Tie, CTEV (Club foot), Congenital Torticollis, Morphological abnormalities like 
congenital kyphosis, congenital scoliosis etc, and  Phimosis 
 
h) Any expenses arising out of Domiciliary Hospitalisation treatment 
 
i) Treatment taken outside the country 
 
j) Intentional self-injury (whether arising from an attempt to commit suicide or otherwise) 

--- PAGE 63 ---

                                                                                                                                                       
                                                                                                                 UIN: ICIHLGP22083V022122 
 
63 
 
 
k) Expenses related to donor screening, treatment, including surgery to remove organs 
from a donor in the case of transplant surgery 
 
l) Any injury or illness caused by or arising from or attribut ed to war, invasion, acts of 
foreign enemies, hostilities (whether war be declared or not), civil war, commotion, 
unrest, rebellion, revolution, military or usurped power or confiscation or nationalisation 
or requisition of or damage by or under the order of any government or public local 
authority 
 
m) Any Illness or Injury caused by or contributed to by nuclear weapons/materials or 
contributed to by or arising from ionising radiation or contamination by radioactivity by 
any nuclear fuel or from any nuclear waste or from the combustion of nuclear fuel 
 
*some of the exclusion will be waived off if the add on cover is opted for the same. 
 
 
f) GENERAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS 
i. Standard General Terms and Clauses  (General terms and clauses whose 
wordings are specified by IRDAI) 
 
1. Disclosure of Information 
The policy shall be void and all premium paid thereon shall be forfeited to the Company in the 
event of misrepresentation, mis description or non -disclosure of any material fact by the 
policyholder. 
 
(Explanation: "Material facts" for the purpose of this policy shall mean all relevant information 
sought by the company in the proposal form and other connected documents to enable it to 
take informed decision in the context of underwriting the risk) 
 
 
2. Condition Precedent to Admission of Liability 
The terms and conditions of the policy must be fulfilled by the insured person for the Company 
to make any payment for claim(s) arising under the policy. 
 
 
3. Claim settlement(provision for penal interest) 
I. The Company shall settle or reject a claim, as the case may be, within 30 days from 
the date of receipt of last necessary document 
II. ln the case of delay in the payment of a claim, the Company shall be liable to pay 
interest to the policyholder from the date of receipt of last necessary document to the 
date of payment of claim at a rate 2% above the bank rate. 
III. However, where the circumstances of a claim warrant an investigation in the opinion 
of the Company, it shall initiate and complete such investigation at the earliest, in any 
case not later than 30 days from the date of receipt of last necessary document - ln 
such cases, the Company shall settle or reject the claim within 45 days from the date 
of receipt of last necessary document. 
IV. ln case of delay beyond stipulated 45 days, the Company shall be liable to pay interest 
to the policyholder at a rate 2% above the bank rate from the date of receipt of last 
necessary document to the date of payment of claim. 

--- PAGE 64 ---

                                                                                                                                                       
                                                                                                                 UIN: ICIHLGP22083V022122 
 
64 
 
 
(Explanation: "Bank rate" shall mean the rate fixed by the Reserve Bank of lndia (RBl) at the 
beginning of the financial year in which claim has fallen due) 
 
4. Complete Discharge 
Any payment to the policyholder, insured person or his/ her nominees or his/ her legal  
representative or assignee or to the Hospital, as the case may be, for an y benefit under 
the policy shall be a valid discharge towards payment of claim by the Company to the  
extent of that amount for the particular claim. 
 
5. Multiple Policies 
 
i. ln case of multiple policies taken by an insured person during a period from one or more insurers 
to indemnify treatment costs, the insured person shall have the right to require a settlement of 
his/her claim in terms of any of his/her policies. ln all such cases the insurer chosen by the 
insured person shall be obliged to settle the claim as long as the claim is within the limits of and 
according to the terms of the chosen policy. 
ii. lnsured person having multiple policies shall also have the right to prefer claims under this 
policy for the amounts disallowed under any other policy / policie s even if the sum insured is 
not exhausted. Then the insurer shall independently settle the claim subject to the terms and 
conditions of this policy. 
iii. lf the amount to be claimed exceeds the sum insured under a single policy, the insured person 
shall have the right to choose insurer from whom he/she wants to claim the balance amount.  
iv. Where an insured person has policies from more than one insurer to cover the same risk on 
indemnity basis, the insured person shall only be indemnified the treatment costs in accordance 
with the terms and conditions of the chosen policy. 
 
6. Fraud 
lf any claim made by the insured person, is in any respect fraudulent, or if any false statement, 
or declaration is made or used in support thereof, or if any fraudulent means or devices a re 
used by the insured person or anyone acting on his/herbehalf to obtain any benefit under this 
policy, all benefits under this policy and the premium paid shall be forfeited.  
 
Any amount already paid against claims made under this policy but which are found fraudulent 
later shall be repaid by all recipient(s)/policyholder(s), who has made that particular claim, who 
shall be jointly and severally liable for such repayment to the insurer. 
 
For the purpose of this clause, the expression "fraud" means any of the following acts committed 
by the insured person or by his agent or the hospital/doctor/any other pa(y acting on behalf of 
the insured person, with intent to deceive the insurer or to induce the insurer to issue an 
insurance policy: 
 
a) the suggestion, as a fact of that which is not true and which the insured 
person does not believe to be true; 
b) the active concealment of a fact by the insured person having knowledge  
or belief of the fact; 
c) any other act fitted to deceive; and 
d) any such act or omission as the law specially declares to be fraudulent 
 
The Company shall not repudiate the claim and / or forfeit the policy benefits on the  
ground of Fraud, if the insured person / beneficiary can prove that the misstatement  

--- PAGE 65 ---

                                                                                                                                                       
                                                                                                                 UIN: ICIHLGP22083V022122 
 
65 
 
was true to the best of his knowledge and there was no deliberate intention to 
suppress the fact or that such misstatement of or suppression of material fact are  
within the knowledge of the insurer. 
 
7. Cancellation 
a) The Insured may cancel this Policy by giving 15days' written notice, and in such an 
event, the Company shall refund premium on short term rates for the unexpired Policy 
Period as per the rates detailed below. 
 
Cancellation Period 
Refund % for 1 
year tenure 
policy 
Refund % for 2 
years tenure 
policy 
Refund % for 3 
years tenur e 
policy 
Refund % for 4 
years tenure 
policy 
Refund % for 5 
years tenure 
policy 
From 16 days to 
1 month 77.5% 80.0% 82.5% 82.5% 82.5% 
From 1 month 
to 3 months 62.5% 72.5% 77.5% 77.5% 80.0% 
From 3 months 
to 6 months 42.5% 62.5% 70.0% 72.5% 75.0% 
From 6 months 
to 9 months 20.0% 52.5% 62.5% 67.5% 70.0% 
From 9 months 
to 12 months 0.0% 42.5% 55.0% 62.5% 67.5% 
From 12 months 
to 15 months  30.0% 47.5% 57.5% 62.5% 
From 15 months 
to 18 months  20.0% 42.5% 52.5% 57.5% 
From 18 months 
to 21 months  10.0% 35.0% 47.5% 55.0% 
From 21 months 
to 24 months  0.0% 27.5% 42.5% 50.0% 
From 24 months 
to 27 months   20.0% 35.0% 45.0% 
From 27 months 
to 30 months   12.5% 30.0% 42.5% 
From 30 months 
to 33 months   5.0% 25.0% 37.5% 
From 33 months 
to 36 months   0.0% 20.0% 32.5% 

--- PAGE 66 ---

                                                                                                                                                       
                                                                                                                 UIN: ICIHLGP22083V022122 
 
66 
 
Notwithstanding anything contained herein or otherwise, no refunds of premium shall 
be made in respect of Cancellation where, any claim has been admitted or has been 
lodged or any benefit has been availed by the Insured person under the Policy.  
b) The Company may cancel the Policy at any time on grounds of mis -representation, 
non-disclosure of material facts, fraud by the Insured Person, by giving 15 days' written 
notice. There would be no refund of premium on cancellation on grounds of mis -
representation, non-disclosure of material facts or fraud. 
 
8. Migration: 
The insured person will have the option to migrate the policy to other health insurance 
products/plans offered by the company by applying for migration of the policy  atleast 30 days 
before the policy renewal date as per IRDAI guidelines on Migration. lf such person is presently 
covered and has been continuously covered without any lapses under any health insurance 
product/ plan offered by the company, the insured person will get the accrued continuity benefits 
in waiting periods as per IRDAI guidelines on migration. 
 
        For Detailed Guidelines on migration, kindly refer the link 
https://www.irdai.gov.in/ADMINCMS/cms/frmGuidelines_Layout.aspx?page=PageNo3987  
 
9. Portability 
The insured person will have the option to port the policy to other insurers by applying to such 
insurer to port the entire policy along with all the members of the family, if any, at least 45 days 
before, but not earlier than 60 days from the policy renewal date as per IRDAI guidelines related 
to portability. lf such person is presently covered and has been continuously covered without 
any lapses under any health insurance policy with an lndian General/Health insurer, the 
proposed insured person will get the accrued continuity benefits in waiting periods as per IRDAI 
guidelines on portability. 
For Detailed Guidelines on portability, kindly refer the link 
https://www.irdai.gov.in/ADMINCMS/cms/frmGuidelines_Layout.aspx?page=PageNo3987  
 
10. Renewal of Policy 
The policy shall ordinarily be renewable except on misrepresentation by the insured person. 
 
i. The Company shall endeavor to give notice for renewal. However, the Company is not 
under obligation to give any notice for renewal. 
ii. Renewal shall not be denied on the ground that the insured person had made a claim 
or claims in the preceding policy years. 
iii. Request for renewal along with requisite premium shall be received by the Company 
before the end of the policy period. 
iv. At the end of the policy period, the policy shall terminate and can be renewed within 
the Grace Period of  30 days  to maintain continuity of benefits without break in policy. 
Coverage is not available during the grace period. 
v. No loading shall apply on renewals based on individual claims experience  
 
11. Withdrawal of Policy 


--- PAGE 67 ---

                                                                                                                                                       
                                                                                                                 UIN: ICIHLGP22083V022122 
 
67 
 
i. ln the likelihood of this product being withdrawn in future, the Company will intimate the 
insured person about the same 90 days prior to expiry of the policy. 
ii. lnsured Person will have the option to migrate to similar health insurance product 
available with the Company at the time of renewal with all the accrued continuity 
benefits such as cumulative bonus, waiver of waiting period. as per IRDAI guidelines, 
provided the policy has been maintained without a break. 
12. Premium Payment in installments  
lf the insured person has opted for Payment of Premium on an instalment basis i.e. Half Yearly, 
Quarterly or Monthly, as mentioned in the policy Schedule/Certificate of lnsurance, the following 
Conditions shall apply (notwithstanding any terms contrary elsewhere in the policy)  
 
i. Grace Period of 15  days would be given to pay the instalment premium due for the policy  
ii. During such grace period, coverage will not be available from the due date of instalment 
premium till the date of receipt of premium by Company. 
iii. The insured person will get the accrued continuity benefit in respect of the "Waiting 
Periods", "Specific Waiting Periods" in the event of payment of premium within the 
stipulated grace Period. 
iv. No interest will be charged lf the instalment premium is not paid on due date.  
v. ln case of instalment premium due not received within the grace period, the policy will get 
cancelled. 
vi. ln the event of a claim, all subsequent premium instalments shall immediately become due 
and payable. 
vii. The company has the right to recover and deduct all the pending instalments from the claim 
amount due under the policy. 
 
13. Possibility of Revision of Terms of the Policy Including the Premium Rates  
The Company, with prior approval of lRDAl, may revise or modify the terms of the policy 
including the premium rates. The insured person shall be notified three months before the 
changes are effected. 
 
14. Free look period 
The Free Look Period shall be applicable on new individual health insurance policies and not 
on renewals or at the time of porting/migrating the policy.  
 
The insured person shall be allowed free look period of fifteen days from date of receipt of the 
policy document to review the terms and conditions of the policy, and to return the same if not 
acceptable. 
 
lf the insured has not made any claim during the Free Look Period, the insured shall be entitled 
to 
i. a refund of the premium paid less any expenses incurred by the Company on medical 
examination of the insured person and the stamp duty charges or 
ii. where the risk has already commenced and the option of return of the policy is exercised 
by the insured person, a deduction towards the proportionate risk premium for period of 
cover or 
iii. Where only a part of the insurance coverage has commenced, such proportionate 
premium commensurate with the insurance coverage during such period; 
 
15. Redressal of Grievances 

--- PAGE 68 ---

                                                                                                                                                       
                                                                                                                 UIN: ICIHLGP22083V022122 
 
68 
 
ln case of any grievance the insured person may contact the company through  
Website :  www.icicilombard.com 
Toll Free : 1800 2666 
E-Mail: customersupport@icicilombard.com 
Courier:  ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company Ltd. 
ICICI Lombard House,  
414, Veer Savarkar Marg,  
Near Siddhi Vinayak Temple,  
Prabhadevi, Mumbai- 400025 
lnsured person may also approach the grievance cell at any of the company's  branches with 
the details of grievance 
 
lf lnsured person is not satisfied with the redressal of grievance through one of the above 
methods, insured person may contact the grievance office r at Manager- Service Quality,  
Corporate Manager- Service Quality,  National Manager- Operations & finally  Director-services 
and Business development at the following address: 
 
ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company Limited, 
ICICI Lombard House,  
414, Veer Savarkar Marg,  
Near Siddhi Vinayak Temple, 
Prabhadevi, Mumbai 400025 
 
For updated details of grievance officer, kindly refer the link.. 
.https://www.icicilombard.com/grievance-redressal... 
 
lf lnsured person is not satisfied with the redressal of grievance through above methods, the 
insured person may also approach the office of lnsurance Ombudsman of the respective 
area/region for redressal of grievance as per lnsurance Ombudsman Rules 2 017.  Grievance 
may also be lodged at IRDAI lntegrated Grievance Management System 
- https:/ligms. irda.qov. in/ 
 
The Details of Insurance Ombudsman are Available Below: 
Areas of Jurisdiction Office of the Insurance Ombudsman 
Gujarat , UT of Dadra and Nagar Haveli, 
Daman and Diu  
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,  
JeevanPrakash Building, 6th floor,  
TilakMarg, Relief Road,  
Ahmedabad – 380 001.  
Tel.: 079 - 25501201/02/05/06 
Email: bimalokpal.ahmedabad@ecoi.co.in 
Karnataka Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,  
JeevanSoudhaBuilding,PID No. 57 -27-N-19, Ground 
Floor, 19/19, 24th Main Road,JP Nagar, Ist Phase,  
Bengaluru – 560 078.  
Tel.: 080 - 26652048 / 26652049  
Email: bimalokpal.bengaluru@ecoi.co.in 
Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh  Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,  
JanakVihar Complex, 2nd Floor,  
6, Malviya Nagar, Opp. Airtel Office,  
Near New Market,  
Bhopal – 462 003.  
Tel.: 0755 - 2769201 / 2769202  

--- PAGE 69 ---

                                                                                                                                                       
                                                                                                                 UIN: ICIHLGP22083V022122 
 
69 
 
Fax: 0755 - 2769203 
Email: bimalokpal.bhopal@ecoi.co.in 
Odisha Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,  
62, Forest park,  
Bhubneshwar – 751 009.  
Tel.: 0674 - 2596461 /2596455  
Fax: 0674 - 2596429 
Email: bimalokpal.bhubaneswar@ecoi.co.in 
Punjab , Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, 
Jammu and Kashmir, UT of Chandigarh  
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,  
S.C.O. No. 101, 102 & 103, 2nd Floor,  
Batra Building, Sector 17 – D, 
Chandigarh – 160 017.  
Tel.: 0172 - 2706196 / 2706468  
Fax: 0172 - 2708274 
Email: bimalokpal.chandigarh@ecoi.co.in 
Tamil Nadu,   UT–Pondicherry Town and 
Karaikal (which are part of UT of 
Pondicherry)  
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,  
Fatima Akhtar Court, 4th Floor, 453,  
Anna Salai, Teynampet,  
CHENNAI – 600 018.  
Tel.: 044 - 24333668 / 24335284  
Fax: 044 - 24333664 
Email: bimalokpal.chennai@ecoi.co.in 
Delhi  Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,  
2/2 A, Universal Insurance Building,  
Asaf Ali Road,  
New Delhi – 110 002.  
Tel.: 011 - 23232481/23213504 
Email: bimalokpal.delhi@ecoi.co.in 
Assam , Meghalaya, Manipur, Mizoram, 
Arunachal Pradesh, Nagaland and 
Tripura  
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,  
JeevanNivesh, 5th Floor,  
Nr. Panbazar over bridge, S.S. Road,  
Guwahati – 781001(ASSAM). 
Tel.: 0361 - 2632204 / 2602205  
Email: bimalokpal.guwahati@ecoi.co.in 
Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and UT of 
Yanam – a part of the UT of Pondicherry  
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 
6-2-46, 1st floor, "Moin Court",  
Lane Opp. Saleem Function Palace,  
A. C. Guards, Lakdi -Ka-Pool, 
Hyderabad - 500 004.  
Tel.: 040 - 67504123 / 23312122  
Fax: 040 - 23376599 
Email: bimalokpal.hyderabad@ecoi.co.in 
Rajasthan Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,  
JeevanNidhi – II Bldg., Gr. Floor,  
Bhawani Singh Marg,  
Jaipur - 302 005.  
Tel.: 0141 - 2740363 
Email: Bimalokpal.jaipur@ecoi.co.in 

--- PAGE 70 ---

                                                                                                                                                       
                                                                                                                 UIN: ICIHLGP22083V022122 
 
70 
 
Kerala , UT of  (a) Lakshadweep, (b) 
Mahe – a part of UT of Pondicherry  
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,  
2nd Floor, Pulinat Bldg.,  
Opp. Cochin Shipyard, M. G. Road,  
Ernakulam-682015. 
Tel.: 0484 - 2358759/2359338 
Fax: 0484 -2359336 
Email: bimalokpal.ernakulam@ecoi.co.in 
West Bengal, UT of Andaman and 
Nicobar Islands, Sikkim  
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,  
Hindustan Bldg. Annexe, 4th Floor,  
4, C.R. Avenue,  
KOLKATA - 700 072.  
Tel.: 033 - 22124339 / 22124340 
Fax : 033 - 22124341 
Email: bimalokpal.kolkata@ecoi.co.in 
Districts of Uttar Pradesh :  
Laitpur, Jhansi, Mahoba, Hamirpur, 
Banda, Chitrakoot, Allahabad, Mirzapur, 
Sonbhabdra, Fatehpur, Pratapgarh, 
Jaunpur,Varanasi, Gazipur, Jalaun, 
Kanpur, Lucknow, Unnao, Sitapur, 
Lakhimpur, Bahraich, Barabanki, 
Raebareli, Sravasti, Gonda, Faizabad, 
Amethi, Kaushambi, Balrampur, Basti, 
Ambedkarnagar, Sultanpur, 
Maharajgang, Santkabirnagar, 
Azamgarh, Kush inagar, Gorkhpur, 
Deoria, Mau, Ghazipur, Chandauli, 
Ballia, Sidharathnagar. 
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,  
6th Floor, JeevanBhawan, Phase -II, 
Nawal Kishore Road, Hazratganj,  
Lucknow - 226 001.  
Tel.: 0522 - 2231330 / 2231331  
Fax: 0522 - 2231310 
Email: bimalokpal.lucknow@ecoi.co.in 
Goa,  
Mumbai Metropolitan Region  
excluding Navi Mumbai & Thane 
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,  
3rd Floor, JeevanSevaAnnexe,  
S. V. Road, Santacruz (W),  
Mumbai - 400 054.  
Tel.: 022 - 26106552 / 26106960  
Fax: 022 - 26106052 
Email: bimalokpal.mumbai@ecoi.co.in 
State of Uttaranchal and the following 
Districts of Uttar Pradesh:  
Agra, Aligarh, Bagpat, Bareilly, Bijnor, 
Budaun, Bulandshehar, Etah, Kanooj, 
Mainpuri, Mathura, Meerut, Moradabad, 
Muzaffarnagar, Oraiyya, Pilibhit, Etawah, 
Farrukhabad, Firozbad, 
Gautambodhanagar, Ghaziabad, Hardoi, 
Shahjahanpur, Hapur, Shamli, Rampur, 
Kashganj, Sambhal, Amroha, Hathras, 
Kanshiramnagar, Saharanpur. 
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,  
BhagwanSahai Palace  
4th Floor, Main Road,  
Naya Bans, Sector 15,  
Distt: GautamBuddh Nagar,  
U.P-201301. 
Tel.: 0120 -2514250 / 2514252 / 2514253  
Email: bimalokpal.noida@ecoi.co.in 
Bihar, 
Jharkhand. 
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,  
1st Floor,Kalpana Arcade Building,,  
Bazar Samiti Road,  
Bahadurpur, 
Patna 800 006.  

--- PAGE 71 ---

                                                                                                                                                       
                                                                                                                 UIN: ICIHLGP22083V022122 
 
71 
 
Tel.: 0612 -2680952 
Email: bimalokpal.patna@ecoi.co.in 
Maharashtra, 
Area of Navi Mumbai and Thane  
excluding Mumbai Metropolitan Region 
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,  
JeevanDarshan Bldg., 3rd Floor,  
C.T.S. No.s. 195 to 198,  
N.C. Kelkar Road, Narayan Peth,  
Pune – 411 030.  
Tel.: 0 20-41312555 
Email: bimalokpal.pune@ecoi.co.in 
 
 
The updated details of Insurance Ombudsman are also available on IRDA website: www.irda.gov.in 
on the website of General Insurance Council: www.generalinsurancecouncil.org.in, website of the 
company www.icicilombard.com  or from any of the offices of the Company 
 
16. Nomination: 
The policyholder is required at the inception of the policy to make a nomination for the purpose 
of payment of claims under the policy in the event of death of the policyholder. Any change of 
nomination shall be communicated to the company in writing and such change shall be effective 
only when an endorsement on the policy is made. ln the event of death of the policyholder, the 
Company will pay the nominee {as named in the Policy Schedule/Policy 
Certificate/Endorsement (if any)} and in case there is no subsisting nominee, to t he legal heirs 
or legal representatives of the policyholder whose discharge shall be treated as full and final 
discharge of its liability under the policy. 
 
ii. Specific Terms and Clauses (terms and clauses other than those mentioned under f(i) above) 
1. Records to be Maintained 
The Insured Person shall keep an accurate record containing all relevant medical records and 
shall allow the Company or its representatives to inspect such records. The Proposer or 
Insured Person shall furnish such information as t he Company may require for settlement of 
any claim under the Policy, within reasonable time limit and within the time limit specified in 
the Policy. 
2. Notice & Communication 
i. Any notice, direction, instruction or any other communication related to the Policy 
should be made in writing. 
ii. Such communication shall be sent to the address of the Company or through any 
other electronic modes specified in the Policy Schedule. 
iii. The Company shall communicate to the Insured at the address or through any other 
electronic mode mentioned in the schedule. 
3. Territorial Limit 
All medical treatment for the purpose of this insurance will have to be taken in India only 
unless worldwide cover has been opted for. 
4. Territorial Jurisdiction 
All disputes or differences under or in relation to the interpretation of the terms, conditions, 

--- PAGE 72 ---

                                                                                                                                                       
                                                                                                                 UIN: ICIHLGP22083V022122 
 
72 
 
validity, construct, limitations and/or exclusions contained in the Policy shall be determined 
by the Indian court and according to Indian law.  
5. Arbitration 
i. If any dispute or difference shall arise as to the quantum to be paid by the Policy, 
(liability being otherwise admitted) such difference shall independently of all other 
questions, be referred to the decision of a sole arbitrator to be appointed in writing by 
the parties here to or if they cannot agree upon a single arbitrator within thirty days of 
any party invoking arbitration, the same shall be referred to a panel of three 
arbitrators, comprising two arbitrators, one to be appointed by each of the parties  to 
the dispute/difference and the third arbitrator to be appointed by such two arbitrators 
and arbitration shall be conducted under and in accordance with the provisions of the 
Arbitration and Conciliation Act 1996, as amended by Arbitration and Conciliat ion 
(Amendment) Act, 2015 (No. 3 of 2016). 
ii. It is clearly agreed and understood that no difference or dispute shall be preferable 
to arbitration as herein before provided, if the Company has disputed or not accepted 
liability under or in respect of the poli cy, iii. It is hereby expressly stipulated and 
declared that it shall be a condition precedent to any right of action or suit upon the 
policy that award by such arbitrator/arbitrators of the amount of expenses shall be 
first obtained. 
 
6. Policy alignment  
Policy Alignment option will be available in cases wherein insured(s) with two separate health 
indemnity policies with Us, having different policy end dates but want to align the policy start 
dates. We can align the policies by extending the coverage of one policy till the end date of the 
other policy. 
Such policies will be charged with premium on pro rata basis though the sum insured under the 
policy shall remain constant.  
 
7. Endorsements (Changes in Policy) 
i. This policy constitutes the complete contract of insurance. This Policy cannot be 
modified by anyone (including an insurance agent or broker) except the company. 
Any change made by the company shall be evidenced by a written endorsement 
signed and stamped. 
ii. The proposer may be changed only at the time of renewal. The new proposer must 
be the legal heir/immediate family member. Such change would be subject to 
acceptance by the company and payment of premium (if any). The renewed Policy 
shall be treated as having been renewed without break. 
iii. The proposer may be changed during the Policy Period only in case of his/her demise 
or him/her moving out of India. 
iv. Mid- term endorsement of addition of member in the policy shall only be allowed for 
newly wedded spouse by marriage and new born baby with relevant document ation 
8. Change of Sum Insured 
Sum insured can be changed (increased/ decreased) only at the time of renewal or at any 
time, subject to underwriting by the Company. For any increase in SI, the waiting period shall 
start afresh only for the enhanced portion of the sum insured. 
9. Notices 


--- PAGE 73 ---

                                                                                                                                                       
                                                                                                                 UIN: ICIHLGP22083V022122 
 
73 
 
Any notice, direction or instruction given under this Policy shall be in writing and delivered by 
hand, post, or facsimile to: 
In Your case, at Your last known address. 
 
In Our case:  
ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company Limited 
ICICI Lombard House 
414, Veer Savarkar Marg, 
Near Siddhi Vinayak Temple, 
Prabhadevi, Mumbai 400025 
 
Notice and instructions will be deemed served 7 days after posting or immediately upon receipt 
in the case of hand delivery, facsimile or e-mail. 
 
 
10.Non Payables 
Below are the non payable items applicable in the policy. The list may be updated as per the direction 
of Authority, For updated list please visit Our website: www.iciciclombard.com  
 
List of Non Payable Items  
Sr. No Items 
1 BABY FOOD  
2 BABY UTILITIES CHARGES  
3 BEAUTY SERVICES  
4 BELTS/ BRACES  
5 BUDS 
6 COLD PACK/HOT PACK  
7 CARRY BAGS  
8 EMAIL / INTERNET CHARGES  
9 FOOD CHARGES (OTHER THAN PATIENT's DIET PROVIDED BY HOSPITAL)  
10 LEGGINGS 
11 LAUNDRY CHARGES  
12 MINERAL WATER  
13 SANITARY PAD  

--- PAGE 74 ---

                                                                                                                                                       
                                                                                                                 UIN: ICIHLGP22083V022122 
 
74 
 
14 TELEPHONE CHARGES  
15 GUEST SERVICES  
16 CREPE BANDAGE  
17 DIAPER OF ANY TYPE  
18 EYELET COLLAR  
19 SLINGS 
20 BLOOD GROUPING AND CROSS MATCHING OF DONORS SAMPLES  
21 SERVICE CHARGES WHERE NURSING CHARGE ALSO CHARGED  
22 Television Charges  
23 SURCHARGES  
24 ATTENDANT CHARGES  
25 EXTRA DIET OF PATIENT (OTHER THAN THAT WHICH FORMS PART OF BED  
26 BIRTH CERTIFICATE  
27 CERTIFICATE CHARGES  
28 COURIER CHARGES  
29 CONVEYANCE CHARGES  
30 MEDICAL CERTIFICATE  
31 MEDICAL RECORDS  
32 PHOTOCOPIES CHARGES 
33 MORTUARY CHARGES  
34 WALKING AIDS CHARGES  
35 OXYGEN CYLINDER (FOR USAGE OUTSIDE THE HOSPITAL)  
36 SPACER 
37 SPIROMETRE  
38 NEBULIZER KIT  
39 STEAM INHALER  
40 ARMSLING 
41 THERMOMETER  
42 CERVICAL COLLAR  
43 SPLINT 
44 DIABETIC FOOT WEAR  

--- PAGE 75 ---

                                                                                                                                                       
                                                                                                                 UIN: ICIHLGP22083V022122 
 
75 
 
45 KNEE BRACES (LONG/ SHORT/ HINGED)  
46 KNEE IMMOBILIZER/SHOULDER IMMOBILIZER  
47 LUMBO SACRAL BELT  
48 NIMBUS BED OR WATER OR AIR BED CHARGES  
49 AMBULANCE COLLAR 
50 AMBULANCE EQUIPMENT 
51 ABDOMINAL BINDER 
52 PRIVATE NURSES CHARGES - SPECIAL NURSING CHARGES 
53 SUGAR FREE Tablets 
54 CREAMS POWDERS LOTIONS (Toiletries are not payable, only prescribed medical 
pharmaceuticals payable) 
55 ECG ELECTRODES  
56 GLOVES 
57 NEBULISATION KIT  
58 RECOVERY KIT, ETC]ANY KIT WITH NO DETAILS MENTIONED [DELIVERY KIT, 
ORTHOKIT,  
59 KIDNEY TRAY  
60 MASK 
61 OUNCE GLASS  
62 OXYGEN MASK  
63 PELVIC TRACTION BELT  
64 PAN CAN 
65 TROLLY COVER  
66 UROMETER, URINE JUG  
67 AMBULANCE  
68 VASOFIX SAFETY  
 
 
g) Other Terms and Conditions 
 
CLAIM ADMINISTRATION 
The fulfillment of  the terms and conditions of this Policy (including payment of premium by the due 
dates mentioned in the Policy Schedule) insofar as they relate to anything to be done or complied 
with by each of You shall be conditions precedent to admission of Our liabil ity. You are requested to 
go through our list of de-listed/excluded providers which is available on our website 

--- PAGE 76 ---

                                                                                                                                                       
                                                                                                                 UIN: ICIHLGP22083V022122 
 
76 
 
Further, upon the discovery or happening of any Illness or Injury that may give rise to a Claim under 
this Policy, then as a condition precedent to the admission of Our liability, You shall undertake the 
following 
 
4.1 CLAIMS PROCEDURE 
(A) For Cashless Settlement 
Cashless treatment is only available at a Network Provider (List of Network Providers 
is available at our website).  In order to avail of cashless treatment, the following 
procedure must be followed by You: 
 
Pre-authorization 
Prior to taking treatment and/or incurring Medical Expenses at a Network Provider, You 
must contact Us or Our in house claim processing team accompanied with full 
particulars namely, Policy Number, Your name, Your relationship with Proposer, nature 
of Illness or Injury, name and address of the Medical Practitioner/ Hospital and  any 
other information that may be relevant to the Illness/ Injury/ Hospitalisation. You must  
request pre-authorisation at least 48 hours before a planned Hospitalisation and in case 
of an emergency situation, within 24 hours of Hospitalisation.  To avail of C ashless 
Hospitalisation facility, you are required to produce the health card, as provided to You 
with this Policy, subject to the terms and conditions for the usage of the said he alth 
card Or You can seek pre authorization by providing Your Policy number and ID proof 
to the hospital who can co -ordinate with Our claim team to provide cashless facility. 
We will consider Your request after having obtained accurate and complete information 
for the Illness or Injury for which cashless Hospitalisation facility is sought by You  and 
We will confirm Your request in writing.  
 
(B) For Reimbursement Settlement 
i. You shall give notice to Us or Our In house claim processing team by calling 
the toll fr ee number 1800 2666 or emailing us at 
customersupport@icicilombard.com as specified in the Policy provided to You 
and also in writing at Our address with particulars as below: 
 Policy number; 
 Your Name; 
 Your relationship with the Proposer; 
 Nature of Illness or Injury; 
 Name and address of the attending Medical Practitioner and the    
Hospital; 
 Any other information that may be relevant to the Illness/ Injury/ 
Hospitalisation 
The above information needs to be provided to Us or Our In house claim 
processing team immediately and in any event within 10 days of 
Hospitalisation, failing which We will have the right to treat the Claim as 
inadmissible, as We may deem fit at Our sole discretion. 
ii. You must immediately consult a Medical Practitioner and follow the advice and 
treatment that he recommends. 
iii. You or someone claiming on Your behalf must promptly and in any event within 
30 days of Your discharge from a Hospital (for post-hospitalisation expenses, 
within 30 days from the completion of post-hospitalisation period) deliver to Us 

--- PAGE 77 ---

                                                                                                                                                       
                                                                                                                 UIN: ICIHLGP22083V022122 
 
77 
 
the documentation (written details of the quantum of any Claim along with all 
original supporting documentation) as more particularly listed in CLAIM 
DOCUMENTS section. In case there is a delay beyond 30 days in submission 
of claim documents, we may condone the delay provided the insured person 
submits a valid reason justifying the delay to us in writing. 
However, in both the above cases i.e. 4.1 (A) & (B), You must take reasonable steps 
or measure to minimise the quantum of any Claim that may be covered under the 
Policy 
If so requested by Us, You will have to undergo a medical examination from Our 
nominated Medical Practitioner, as and when We or Our In house claim processing 
team consid ers reasonable and necessary. The cost of such examination will be 
borne by Us.   
 
Settlement/Rejection of Claim  
The settlement of claims would be done by Us within 30 days, after the receipt of last necessary 
document, any rejections if done, would be provided with proper reasons by Us.  
Penal interest provision shall be as per Regulation 15(10) of (Protection of Policyholders’ 
Interests) Regulations 2017 
 
Claim falling in two Policy Periods 
If the claim event falls within two Policy periods, the claims shall be paid taking into 
consideration the available Sum Insured in the two Policy Periods, including the Deduct ibles 
for each Policy Period. Such eligible claim amount to be payable to the Insured shall be reduced 
to the extent of premium to be received for the Renewal/due date of premium of health 
insurance Policy, if not received earlier. 
Claims settlement will f ollow the below mentioned order in case you have opted for super no 
claim bonus and sum insured protector  
1) Sum Insured 
2) Additional Sum insured 
3) Super No Claim Bonus (if opted and accrued) 
4) Sum Insured Protector (if opted and accrued) 
4.2 CLAIM DOCUMENTS 
You shall be required to furnish the following documents for or in support of a Claim:  
 
a) Duly completed Claim form signed by You and the Medical Practitioner. The claim 
form can be downloaded from Our website www.icicilombard.com 
b) Original bills, receipts and discharge certificate/card from the Hospital/Medical 
Practitioner 
c) Original bills from chemists supported by proper prescription. 
d) Original investigation test reports and payment receipts. 
e) Indoor case papers 
f) Medical Practitioner’s referral letter advising Hospitalisation in non-Accident cases. 
g) Any other document as required by Us or Our In house claim processing team to 
investigate the Claim or Our obligation to make payment for it 
 
 

--- PAGE 78 ---

                                                                                                                                                       
                                                                                                                 UIN: ICIHLGP22083V022122 
 
78