--- PAGE 1 ---

ICICI Lombard Complete Health Insurance                   Annexure I                                                                                                    
UIN - ICIHLIP22096V062122 
 
 
                                                                                                                                              Page 1 of 52 
 
ICICI LOMBARD COMPLETE HEALTH INSURANCE 
 
 
 
a. POLICY SCHEDULE 
 
Policy No.                  Issued at              Stamp Duty  
 
1. Name of the Proposer:  
2. Mailing address of the Proposer: 
3. Contact No. of the Proposer: 
4. Policy Period:   
 Start Date: Time________  Hour__________ 
 End Date: Time________  Hour__________  
5. Period of Insurance 
 Start Date 
 End Date 
 Territorial Scope:  
6. Details of Previous Policy: 
 Previous Policy No.  
 Previous Policy Period 
 Claims (if any) 
7. Details of the Insured Person(s) under the Policy: 
 
Name of the Insured/s 
 
     
Address for correspondence      
Relationship with the  Proposer 
 
     
Date of Birth MM/DD/YY 
 
     
Sex 
 
 
  M / 
  F 
/
  
 
  M/
  F /
T 
 M  / 
  F 
/
  
 M / 
  F /
T 
 M  / 
  F 
/
  
Name of the Nominee      
Relation of the Nominee with the 
Insured 
     
Pre-existing Condition       
Special condition: Any physical, 
medical condition or treatment or 
service which is permanently 
excluded under the Policy 
     
Annual Sum Insured (Rs.)      
Additional Sum Insured (Cumulative 
Bonus) (Rs.)* 
     
Voluntary Deductible (Rs.)*      
Basic Premium (Rs.)      
Extensions/optional covers**      
 *wherever applicable 

--- PAGE 2 ---

ICICI Lombard Complete Health Insurance                   Annexure I                                                                                                    
UIN - ICIHLIP22096V062122 
 
 
                                                                                                                                              Page 2 of 52 
 
** Extensions/Optional covers availed under the policy. Refer the details of the applicable 
Extensions/Optional covers mentioned in table provided below (Table will be customized as per the 
extension/optional cover opted by the customer) 
8. Extensions/Optional covers available under the policy:   
Extension 
no. 
Extensions/Optional covers Premium (₹) Annual Sum Insured (₹) 
1 Hospital Daily cash  Max liability for this 
extension will be Rs _____ 
per day of Hospitalisation 
multiplied by maximum 
number of days 
2 Convalescence benefit   
3 Nursing at home   
4 Compassionate visit   
5 Domestic road emergency 
ambulance cover 
  
6 Medical evacuation cover   
7 Critical Illness cover   
8 Personal accident cover   
9 Donor expenses   
10 Out-patient treatment cover   
11 Wellness and Preventive 
Healthcare 
  
12 Maternity benefit   
13 New born baby cover   
14 Voluntary deductible    
15 Sub limits on medical 
expenses/illness/surgeries/proce
dures 
  
16 Super no claim bonus   
17 Sum insured protector   
18 Claim protector   
19 ASI protector   
20 Domiciliary hospitalisation   
21 Air Ambulance cover   
22 Unlimited reset benefit   
23 Worldwide cover   
24 Emergency services   
 
9. PREMIUM DETAILS 
Premium Amount (in INR) 
Basic Premium  
Optional covers premium  
Loading (if any)  
Discount (if any)  
Premium Installment Option (if opted)  
GST   
TOTAL PREMIUM   
 

--- PAGE 3 ---

ICICI Lombard Complete Health Insurance                   Annexure I                                                                                                    
UIN - ICIHLIP22096V062122 
 
 
                                                                                                                                              Page 3 of 52 
 
 
Signed for and on behalf of ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company Limited, at ___________ on 
this date  
 
 
Authorized Signatory 
 
Company Contact Details:  
a) Toll-free number: 1800-2666 
b) Registered Office Address: 
ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company Limited 
ICICI Lombard House 
414, Veer Savarkar Marg, 
Near Siddhi Vinayak Temple, 
Prabhadevi, Mumbai 400025 
 
E-mail: customersupport@icicilombard.com 
 
Agent Details: (Shall be mentioned only for the policy sourced through the registered Agents) 
Agent Name Agent code Agent Contact No. 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
In House Claim Processing Details 
Name Complete Address Contact no. 

--- PAGE 4 ---

ICICI Lombard Complete Health Insurance                   Annexure I                                                                                                    
UIN - ICIHLIP22096V062122 
 
 
                                                                                                                                              Page 4 of 52 
 
TAX CERTIFICATE 
 
To, 
Name of the Proposer 
Address of the Proposer  
 
Subject: Premium certificate for the purpose of deduction under section 80D of Income Tax Act, 1961 
and any amendments made thereafter.  
 
Dear (Name of the Proposer), 
 
This is to certify that the Company has received the premium dated dd/mm/yyyy for Health insurance coverage 
under "ICICI Lombard Complete Health Insurance Policy" with the following details. 
 
Proposer’s Name  Policy Number  
Policy Start Date  Policy End Date  
Plan Name  Total Premium Paid 
(₹) 
 
GSTIN Number 
(Customer) 
 GSTIN Reg.No (ICICI 
Lombard) 
 
Servicing Branch 
Name 
 Servicing Branch 
Address 
 
 
Premium Details (₹) 
Basic Premium CGST SGST Total Tax Payable Total Premium % ₹ % ₹ 
       
 
Financial Year Amount 
(₹) 
2019-2020  
2020-2021  
2021-2022  
The product is eligible for deduction u/s 80D of the Income Tax, 1961 and any amendments made there to. 
 
Sincerely, 
For ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company Ltd. 
 
Authorised Signatory 
Note:  
 Details of the Policy are as per the Part d ,e, f and g of this Policy.  
 This certificate must be surrendered to the Insurance Company in case of Cancellation of the Policy.  
 In the event of incorrect representation of this declaration, the liability shall be upon the proposer . 
 In case You find any variations against Your proposal or any discrepancy in the Policy, please contact Us 
immediately on the numbers available on our website www.icicilombard.com Or call on our toll  free no. 
1800 2666 


--- PAGE 5 ---

ICICI Lombard Complete Health Insurance                   Annexure I                                                                                                    
UIN - ICIHLIP22096V062122 
 
 
                                                                                                                                              Page 5 of 52 
 
b. PREAMBLE 
ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company Limited (“We / Us”), having received a Proposal and 
the premium from the Proposer named in Part a of the Policy (hereinafter referred to as the “Policy 
Schedule”) and the said Proposal an d Declaration together with any statement, report or other 
document leading to the issue of this Policy and referred to therein having been accepted and 
agreed to by Us and the P roposer as the basis of this contract do, by this Policy agree, in 
consideration of and subject to the due receipt of the subsequent premiums, as set out in the Policy 
Schedule, and further, subject to the terms and conditions contained in this Policy that on proof to 
Our satisfaction of the compensation having become payable as set  out in the Policy Schedule to 
the title of the said person or persons claiming payment or upon the happening of an event upon 
which one or more benefits become payable under this Policy, the Annual Sum Insured / 
appropriate benefit amount will be paid by Us. 
 
 
 
c.  DEFINITIONS  
 
For the purposes of this Policy, the terms specified below shall have the meaning set forth 
wherever appearing/specified in this Policy or related Extensions: 
 
Where the context so requires, references to the singular shall also include references to the 
plural and references to any gender shall include references to all genders. Further any 
references to statutory enactment include subsequent changes to the same.  
 
 
i. Standard Definitions (Definitions whose wordings are specified by IRDAI) 
 
 
Accident means a sudden, unforeseen and involuntary event caused by external, visible and violent 
means.  
 
Any one illness means continuous Period of illness and it includes relapse within 45 days from the 
date of last consultation with the Hospital/Nursing Home where treatment may have been taken.  
 
Ayush Hospital is a healthcare facility wherein medical/surgical/para-surgical treatment procedures 
and interventions are carried out by AYUSH Medical practitioner(s) comprising of any of the following:  
a) Central or State government AYUSH hospital; or 
b) Teaching hospital attached to AYUSH college recognized by the central government/Central 
council of Indian medicine/ Central council for Homeopathy; or 
c) AYUSH Hospital, standalone or co -located with in -patient healthcare facility of any 
recognized system of medicine, registered with the local authorities, wherever applicable, 
and is under the supervision of a qualified registered AYUSH medical practitioner and must 
comply with the following criterion: 
i. Having at least 5 in-patient beds 
ii. Having qualified AYUSH medical practitioner in charge round the clock 
iii. Having dedicated AYUSH therapy sect ions as required and/or has equipped 
operation theatre where surgical procedures are to be carried out; 
iv. Maintaining daily records of the patients and making them accessible to the 
insurance company’s authorized representative  
 

--- PAGE 6 ---

ICICI Lombard Complete Health Insurance                   Annexure I                                                                                                    
UIN - ICIHLIP22096V062122 
 
 
                                                                                                                                              Page 6 of 52 
 
AYUSH Day Care Centre  means and includes Community Health Centre (CHC), Primary Health 
Centre (PHC), Dispensary, Clinic, Polyclinic or any such health centre which is registered with the 
local authorities, wherever applicable and having facilities for carrying out treatment procedure s and 
medical or surgical/para -surgical interventions or both under the supervision of registered AYUSH 
Medical Practitioner (s) on day care basis without in - patient services and must comply with all the 
following criterion: 
a) Having qualified registered AYUSH Medical Practitioner(s) in charge; 
b) Having dedicated AYUSH therapy sections as required and/or has equipped operation 
theatre where surgical procedures are to be carried out; 
c) Maintaining daily records of the patients and making them accessible to the in surance 
company’s authorized representative. 
(Explanation: Medical practitioner referred in the definition of “AYUSH Hospital” and “AYUSH 
day care center” shall carry the same meaning as defined in the definition of “Medical 
practitioner” under chapter I of Guidelines) 
 
Cashless Facility means a facility extended by the insurer to the insured where the payments, of the 
costs of treatment undergone by the insured in accordance with the policy terms and conditions, are 
directly made to the network provider by the insurer to the extent pre-authorization approved. 
 
Condition Precedent shall mean a policy term or condition upon which the Insurer's liability under 
the policy is conditional upon. 
 
Congenital Anomaly refers to a condition(s) which is present since birth, and which is abnormal with 
reference to form, structure or position. 
a) Internal Congenital Anomaly -Congenital anomaly which is not in the visible and accessible 
parts of the body  
b) External Congenital Anomaly - Congenital anomaly which is in the visible and accessible 
parts of the body  
 
 
Co-payment means a cost sharing requirement under a health insurance policy that provides that 
the policyholder/insured/proposer will bear a specified percentage of the admissible  claims amount. 
A co-payment does not reduce the Sum Insured. 
Cumulative Bonus shall mean any increase or addition in the Sum Insured granted by the insurer 
without an associated increase in premium. 
 
Day care centre means any institution established for day care treatment of illness and/or injuries or 
a medical setup with a hospital and which has been registered with the local authorities, wherever 
applicable, and is under supervision of a registered and qualified medical practitioner AND must 
comply with all minimum criterion as under – 
a) has qualified nursing staff under its employment; 
b) has qualified medical practitioner/s in charge  
c) has fully equipped operation theatre of its own where surgical procedures are carried out;  
d) maintains daily records of patients and will make these accessible to the insurance 
company’s authorized personnel 
 
Day Care Treatment refers to medical treatment, and/or Surgical Procedure which is  
a) undertaken under General or Local Anesthesia in a Hospital/Day care centre in less than 24 
hrs because of technological advancement, and  
b) which would have otherwise required a hospitalisation of more than 24 hours.  
Treatment normally taken on an out-patient basis is not included in the scope of this definition. 

--- PAGE 7 ---

ICICI Lombard Complete Health Insurance                   Annexure I                                                                                                    
UIN - ICIHLIP22096V062122 
 
 
                                                                                                                                              Page 7 of 52 
 
 
Deductible is a cost sharing requirement under a health insurance policy that provides that provides 
that the insurer will not be liable for specified rupee amount in case of indemnity policies and for a 
specified number of days/hours in case of hospital cash policy, which will apply before any benefits 
are payable by the insurer This is to clarify that a deductible does not reduce the sum insured.   
 
Dental treatment  means a treatment related to teet h or structures supporting teeth including 
examinations, fillings (where appropriate), crowns, extractions and surgery 
 
Disclosure to information Norm means the policy shall be void and all premium paid thereon shall 
be forfeited to the Company in the even t of misrepresentation, mis -description or non-disclosure of 
any material fact 
 
Domiciliary Hospitalisation  means medical treatment for an illness/disease/injury which in the 
normal course would require care and treatment at a hospital but is actually take n while confined at 
home under any of the following circumstances: 
a) the condition of the patient is such that he/she is not in a condition to be removed to a hospital, 
or  
b) the patient takes treatment at home on account of non-availability of room in a hospital. 
 
Emergency Care means management for an illness or injury which results in symptoms which occur 
suddenly and unexpectedly, and requires immediate care by a medical practitioner to prevent death 
or serious long term impairment of the insured person’s health 
 
Grace Period means the specified period of time immediately following the premium due date during 
which a payment can be made to renew or continue a policy in force without loss of continuity benefits 
such as waiting periods and coverage of Pre Exis ting Diseases. Coverage is not available for the 
period for which no premium is received. 
 
Hospital means any institution established for in - patient care and day care treatment of illness and 
/ or injuries and which has been registered as a hospital with the local authorities under the Clinical 
Establishments (Registration and Regulations) Act 2010 or under enactments specified under the 
Schedule of Section 56(1) of the said Act Or comply with all minimum criteria as under: 
a) has qualified nursing staff under its employment round the clock; 
b) has at least 10 inpatient beds, in those towns having a population of less than 10,00,000 and 
15 inpatient beds in all other places 
c) has qualified medical practitioner(s) in charge round the clock; 
d) has a fully equipped operation theatre of its own where surgical procedures are carried out  
e) maintains daily records of patients and makes these accessible to the Insurance company’s 
authorized personnel.  
 
Hospitalisation means admission in a Hospital for a minimum period of 24 consecutive in-patient 
care hours except for specified Procedures/Treatments, where such admission could be for a period 
of less than 24 consecutive hours.  
 
Illness means a sickness or disease or pathological condition leading to the impairment of norm al 
physiological function and requires medical treatment.  
a) Acute condition - Acute condition is a disease, illness or injury that is likely to respond quickly 
to treatment which aims to return the person to his or her state of health immediately before 
suffering the disease/illness/injury which leads to full recovery. 

--- PAGE 8 ---

ICICI Lombard Complete Health Insurance                   Annexure I                                                                                                    
UIN - ICIHLIP22096V062122 
 
 
                                                                                                                                              Page 8 of 52 
 
b) Chronic condition - A chronic condition is defined as a disease, illness, or injury that has one 
or more of the following characteristics: 
i. it needs ongoing or long-term monitoring through cons ultations, examinations, check-
ups, and / or tests 
ii. it needs ongoing or long-term control or relief of symptoms 
iii. it requires your rehabilitation for the patient or for the patient  to be specially trained to 
cope with it 
iv. it continues indefinitely 
v. It recurs or is likely to recur  
 
 
Injury means any accidental physical bodily harm, excluding illness or disease solely and directly 
caused by external, violent, visible and evident means which is verified and certified by a Medical 
Practitioner. 
 
Inpatient care means treatment for which the insured person has to stay in a Hospital for more than 
24 hours for a covered event. 
 
Intensive Care Unit  means an identified section, ward or wing of a hospital which is under the 
constant supervision of a dedicated medical practitioner(s), and which is specially equipped for the 
continuous monitoring and treatment of patients who are in a critical condition, or require life support 
facilities and where the level of care and supervision is considerably more sophisticated and intensive 
than in the ordinary and other wards 
 
ICU (Intensive Care Unit) Charges means the amount charged by a Hospital towards ICU expenses 
which shall include the expenses for ICU bed, general medical support services provided to any ICU 
patient including monitoring devices, critical care nursing and intensivist charges.  
 
Maternity expenses shall 
a) include medical treatment expenses trace able to childbirth (including complicated deliveries 
and caesarean sections incurred during Hospitalisation);  
b) expenses towards lawful medical termination of pregnancy during the policy period  
 
 
Medical Expenses  means those expenses that an Insured Person has necessarily and actually 
incurred for medical treatment on account of Illness or Accident on the advice of a Medical 
Practitioner, as long as these are no more than would have been payable if the Insured Person had 
not been insured and no more than other hospitals or doctors in the same locality would have charged 
for the same medical treatment. 
 
Medical Advice means any consultation or advice from a Medical Practitioner including the issuance 
of any prescription or repeat prescription. 
 
 
Medically Necessary Treatment is defined as any treatment, tests medication or stay in hospital or 
part of a stay in Hospital which  
a) Is required for the medical management of the illness or Injury suffered by the insured  
b) Must not exceed the level of care necessary to provide safe, adequate and appropriate 
medical care in scope, duration or intensity 
c) Must have been prescribed by a Medical practitioner 

--- PAGE 9 ---

ICICI Lombard Complete Health Insurance                   Annexure I                                                                                                    
UIN - ICIHLIP22096V062122 
 
 
                                                                                                                                              Page 9 of 52 
 
d) Must conform to the professional standard widely accepted in international medical practice 
or by the medical community in India 
 
Migration means the right accorded to health insurance policyholders /proposers (including all 
members under family cover and members of group Health insurance policy), to transfer the credit 
gained for pre-existing conditions and time bound exclusions, with the same insurer. 
 
Network Provider means hospitals or health care providers enlisted by an insurer , TPA or jointly by 
an insurer and TPA to provide medical services to an insured by a cashless facility.  
 
Newborn Baby means baby born during the Policy Period and is aged upto 90 days. 
 
Non- Network Provider means any Hospital, day care centre or other provider that is not part of the 
Network. 
 
Notification of claim means the process of intimating a claim to the insurer or TPA through any of 
the recognized modes of communication  
 
OPD treatment  is one in which the Insured visits a clinic / hospital or associated facility like a 
consultation room for diagnosis and treatment based on the advice of a Medical Practitioner. Th e 
Insured is not admitted as a day care or in-patient. 
 
Pre-existing Disease means any condition, ailment, injury or disease  
a) That is/ are diagnosed by a physician within 48 months prior to the effective date of the policy 
issued by the insurer or its reinstatement or 
b) For which medical advice or treatment was recommended by, or received from, a physician 
within 48 months prior to the effective date of the policy  issued by the insurer  or its 
reinstatement. 
 
Pre-Hospitalisation Medical Expenses  means medical expenses incurred during predefined 
number of days preceding the hospitalization of the insured person, provided that: :  
a) Such Medical Expenses are incurred for the same condition for which the     Insured Person’s 
Hospitalisation was required, and  
b) The In-patient Hospitalisation claim for such Hospitalisation is admissible by the Insurance 
Company. 
 
 
Post-Hospitalisation Medical Expenses  means medical expenses incurred  during predefined 
number of days immediately after the Insured Person is discharged from the hospital, provided that:  
a) Such Medical Expenses are for the same condition for which the Insured Person’s 
Hospitalisation was required, and 
b) The In-patient Hospitalisation claim for such Hospitalisation is admissible by the Insurance 
Company. 
 
Portability means the right accorded to an individual health insurance policyholder /proposers 
(including all members under family cover), to transfer the credit gained for pre -existing conditions 
and time bound exclusions, from one insurer to another insurer  
 
Qualified Nurse is a person who holds a valid registration from the Nursing Council of India or the 
Nursing Council of any state in India. 
 


--- PAGE 10 ---

ICICI Lombard Complete Health Insurance                   Annexure I                                                                                                    
UIN - ICIHLIP22096V062122 
 
 
                                                                                                                                              Page 10 of 52 
 
Reasonable and Customary Charges means the charges for services or supplies, which are the 
standard charges for th e specific provider and consistent with the prevailing charges in the 
geographical area for identical or similar services, taking into account the nature of Illness/injury 
involved. 
 
Renewal defines the terms on which the contract of insurance can be renew ed on mutual consent 
with a provision of grace period for treating the renewal continuous for the purpose of gaining credit 
for pre-existing diseases, time-bound exclusions and for all waiting periods. 
 
Room Rent means the amount charged by a hospital towards Room and Boarding expenses and 
shall include associated medical expenses. 
 
Subrogation shall mean the right of the insurer to assume the rights of the insured person to recover 
expenses paid out under the policy that may be recovered from any other source. 
 
Surgery or Surgical Procedure means manual and/or operative procedure (s) required for treatment 
of an illness or injury, correction of deformities and defects, diagnosis and cure of diseases, relief of 
suffering or prolongation of life, performed in a hospital or day care centre by a Medical Practitioner 
 
Unproven/Experimental treatment means treatment including drug experimental therapy which is 
not based on established medical practice in India, is treatment experimental or unproven. 
 
 
ii. Specific Definitions (Definitions other than those mentioned under c.i. above) 
 
Admission means Your admission in a Hospital as an inpatient for the purpose of medical treatment 
of an Injury and/or Illness. 
 
AYUSH treatments  refers to the medical aid and / or hospitalisation treatments given under 
‘Ayurveda, Yoga and Naturopathy, Unani, Siddha and Homeopathy systems 
 
Annual Sum Insured  means and denotes the maximum amount of cover available to You during 
each Policy Year of the Policy Period, as stated in the Policy Schedule or any revisions thereof based 
on Claim settled under the Policy. 
 
Break in Policy occurs at the end of the existing policy term, when the premium due for renewal on 
a given policy is not paid on or before the premium renewal date or within 30 days thereof. 
 
Contribution is essentially the right of an insurer to call upon other insurers, liable to the same 
insured, to share the cost of an indemnity claim on a rateable proportion of Sum Insured. This clause 
shall not apply to any Benefit offered on fixed benefit basis. 
 
Claim means a demand made by You or on Your behalf for payment of Medical Expenses or any 
other expenses or benefits, as covered under the Policy. 
 
Immediate Family means spouse, dependent children, brother(s), sister(s) and dependent parent(s) 
of the insured. 
 
Insured/Insured Person(s)  means the individual(s) whose name(s) is/are specifically appearing as 
such in the Policy Schedule and is/are hereinafter referred as “You”/“Your”/ “Yours”/ “Yourself”  
  

--- PAGE 11 ---

ICICI Lombard Complete Health Insurance                   Annexure I                                                                                                    
UIN - ICIHLIP22096V062122 
 
 
                                                                                                                                              Page 11 of 52 
 
 
Maximum limit of indemnity means the sum total of annual sum insured, additional sum insured (if 
any) and super no claim bonus (if opted and accrued by the insured)/ Sum Insured Protector (if opted 
by the insured)                                                                         
 
Medical Practitioner is a person who holds a valid registration from the Medical Council of any State 
or Medical Council of India or Council for Indian Medicine or for Homeopathy set up by the 
Government of India or a State Government and is thereby entitled to practice medic ine within its 
jurisdiction; and is acting within the scope and jurisdiction of his license.  
 
The term Medical Practitioner would include physician, specialist, anaesthetist and surgeon but would 
exclude You and Your spouse, Your children, Your brother(s), Your sister(s) and Your parent(s).  
For the purposes of worldwide cover, Medical practitioner would mean a person who holds a valid 
registration from the Medical council of the respective country where the treatment is being taken by 
the insured  
 
Period of Insurance means the period as specifically appearing in the Policy Schedule and 
commencing from the Policy Period Start Date of the first Policy taken by You from Us and then, 
running concurrent to Your current Policy subject to the Your continuous rene wal of such Policy with 
Us.  
 
Policy means these Policy wordings, the Policy Schedule and any applicable endorsements or 
extensions attaching to or forming part thereof. The Policy contains details of the extent of cover 
available to You, what is excluded from the cover and the terms & conditions on which the Policy is 
issued to You.  
 
Proposer means the person(s) or the entity named in the Policy Schedule who executed the Policy 
Schedule and is (are) responsible for payment of premium(s). 
 
Policy Period means the period commencing from the Policy Period Start Date, Time and ending at 
the Policy Period End Date, Time of the Policy and as specifically appearing in the Policy Schedule.  
 
Policy Year means a period of twelve months beginning from the Policy Period Start Date and ending 
on the last day of such twelve-month period. For the purpose of subsequent years, “Policy Year” shall 
mean a period of twelve months beginning from the end of the previous Policy Year and lapsing on 
the last day of such twelve -month period, till the Policy Period End Date, as s pecified in the Policy 
Schedule  
 
Senior Citizen means any person who has completed sixty or more years of age as on the date of 
commencement or renewal of a health insurance policy. 
 
Service Provider means any person, organization, institution, or company that has been empanelled 
with Us to provide services specified under the Benefits (including add -ons) to The Insured person. 
These shall also include all healthcare providers empanelled to form a part of network other than 
hospitals.   
The list of the Service Providers is available at our website 
(https://www.icicilombard.com/content/ilom-en/serviceprovider/search.asp) and is subject to 
amendment from time to time. 
 
You/Your/ Yours/ Yourself   means the person(s) that We insure and is/are specifically named as 
Insured / Insured Person(s) in the Policy Schedule. 

--- PAGE 12 ---

ICICI Lombard Complete Health Insurance                   Annexure I                                                                                                    
UIN - ICIHLIP22096V062122 
 
 
                                                                                                                                              Page 12 of 52 
 
 
We/ Our/ Ours/ Us means the ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company Limited 
 
 
 
d. Benefits Covered Under the Policy  
A. Basic Cover 
1. In-patient Treatment  
We hereby agree subject to terms, conditions and exclusions herein contained or otherwise 
expressed hereon that, if during the Policy Year, You require minimum 24 hours Hospitalisation 
for any Illness or Injury on the written advice of a Medical Practitioner, then We  will indemnify 
the Medical Expenses so incurred by You.  
However, Our total liability under this Policy for payment of any and all Claims in aggregate 
during each Policy Year of the Policy Period shall not exceed the Maximum Limit of Indemnity 
as stated in the Policy Schedule. 
2. Day Care Procedures/Treatment 
We hereby agree subject to terms, conditions and exclusions herein contained or otherwise 
expressed hereon that, if during the Policy Year, You require Hospitalisation as an inpatient for 
less than 24 hours in a Hospital (but not in the outpatient department of  a Hospital) on the 
written advice of a Medical Practitioner, then We will pay You for the Medical Expenses incurred 
for undergoing such Day Care Procedure/Treatment or surgery  
However, Our total liability under this cover for payment of any and all Claim s in aggregate 
during each Policy Year of the Policy Period shall not exceed the Maximum Limit of Indemnity 
as stated in the Policy Schedule.  
 
3. Pre-Hospitalisation and Post-Hospitalisation Expenses 
We hereby agree subject to the terms, conditions and exclusions herein contained or otherwise 
expressed hereon that, We will compensate You for the relevant Medical Expenses incurred by 
You in relation to: 
 Pre-hospitalisation Medical Expenses incurred by You for a 30-day period immediately 
prior to Your Hospitalisation; and 
 Post-hospitalisation Medical Expenses incurred by You for a 60 -day period 
immediately post Hospitalisation, provided that Your Hospitalisation falls within  the 
Policy Year and We have accepted Your Claim under “In -patient Treatment” or “Day 
Care Procedures” section of the Policy. 
However, Our total liability under this Policy for payment of any and all Claims in aggregate 
during each Policy Year of the Polic y Period shall not exceed the Maximum Limit of Indemnity 
as stated in the Policy Schedule.  
 
4. In Patient AYUSH Hospitalisation 
We will reimburse expenses for AYUSH treatment only when the treatment has been 
undergone in a AYUSH Hospital or AYUSH day care centre. 
We will not cover expenses for hospitalisation done for evaluation or investigation only. 
Treatment taken at a healthcare facility which is not a Hospital are also excluded.  

--- PAGE 13 ---

ICICI Lombard Complete Health Insurance                   Annexure I                                                                                                    
UIN - ICIHLIP22096V062122 
 
 
                                                                                                                                              Page 13 of 52 
 
However, Our total liability under this Policy for payment of any and all Claims in aggregate 
during each Policy Year of the Policy Period shall not exceed the Maximum Limit of Indemnity 
as stated in the Policy Schedule. 
5. Reset Benefit 
For plans with Sum Insured ₹ 3lacs and above, We will reset up to 100% of the Sum insured 
once in a policy year in case the Sum insured including accrued Additional Sum Insured (if any) 
is insufficient as a result of previous claims in that policy year, provided that:  
 The total amount of reset will not exceed the Sum Insured for that policy year  
 The reset amount can only be used for all future claims within the same policy year, 
not related to the illness/disease/injury for which a claim has been paid in that policy 
year for the same person 
 The claim will be admissible under the reset only if the claim is admissibl e as per 
section “benefits covered under the policy” in part d of Policy Schedule. 
 Reset will not trigger for the first claim 
 For individual policies, reset Sum Insured will be available on individual basis whereas 
for floater policies, it will be available on floater basis 
 Any unutilized reset Sum Insured will not be carried forward to subsequent policy year 
 Such reset will be available only once during a Policy year to each insured in case of 
individual policy and can be utilized by insured persons who stand covered under the 
Policy before the Sum Insured was exhausted. 
 For any single claim during a policy year, the maximum claim amount payable shall not 
exceed the sum of  
o The Sum Insured, and 
o Additional Sum Insured 
 During a Policy Year, the aggregate claim amount payable, shall not exceed the sum 
of: 
o The Sum Insured 
o Additional Sum Insured 
o Reset Sum Insured 
 
 
6. Wellness Program 
Wellness program intends to promote, incentivize and reward You for Your healthy behavior 
through various wellness services. All the wellness activities as mentioned below make You 
earn wellness points which will be tracked by Us. You can inform us of the various wellness 
activities undertaken by You via email or calling our toll free number. You can redeem these 
wellness points as per Our redemption terms and conditions 
 
The wellness services and activities are categorized as below: 
a) Manage and track Your health 
o Online Health Risk Assessment (HRA) 
o Medical Risk Assessment 
o Preventive Risk Assessment 
b) Disease Management Services 
c) Medical Concierge Services 
d) Affinity to Wellness 
 
a) Manage & Track Your Health: 
o Online Health Risk Assessment (HRA) 

--- PAGE 14 ---

ICICI Lombard Complete Health Insurance                   Annexure I                                                                                                    
UIN - ICIHLIP22096V062122 
 
 
                                                                                                                                              Page 14 of 52 
 
The Health Risk Assessment (HRA) questionnaire is a tool for evaluation of health and 
quality of life. It helps You review Your personal lifestyle practices which may impact your 
health status. You can log into Your account on Our website www.icicilombard.com and 
take HRA. This can be undertaken once per policy year per insured person. 
On taking online HRA test, You can earn 250 wellness points per insured, maximum up 
to 500 points per floater policy. 
 
o Medical Risk Assessment 
We will reward You with wellness points on unde rgoing medical checkup, using 
complimentary checkup coupons provided with policy, anytime during the policy period. 
We will help You in getting the appointment fixed at Our empanelled centers or We will 
arrange home visit wherever necessary.  You will be a warded 1,000 wellness points per 
insured, maximum up to 2,000 points per floater policy on undergoing these tests.  
Second year onwards, if Your medical test results are in normal limits, additional 1,000 
wellness points per insured, maximum up to 2,000 points per floater policy will be awarded 
for maintenance of health. We will communicate the findings of this assessment to You 
and advice You appropriately. 
 
o Preventive Risk Assessment 
You can also earn wellness points by undergoing certain other diagnostic and preventive 
health check up (Specified in list given below or as suggested by Our empanelled medical 
experts) at any diagnostic centre at Your own expenses. You shall have to submit medical 
reports of these tests to Us.  
List of Additional tests and corresponding wellness points per Policy Year: 
Test For whom Wellness Points 
Heart related screening tests (2D echo/ 
TMT) Above 45 years 500 
HbA1c / Complete lipid profile Any age 500 
PAP Smear Females above age 45 500 
Mammogram Females above age 45 500 
Prostate Specific Antigen (PSA) Males above age 45 500 
Any other test as suggested by  Our 
empanelled Medical expert As suggested 500 
 
b) Disease Management Services 
In case Your medical tests indicate any health irregularities, We will help You track Your health 
through Our empanelled medical experts who will guide You in maintaining/ improving Your 
health condition. We may also provide Dietician and nutritional counseling as per Your health 
condition. 
c) Medical Concierge Services 
You can also contact Us to avail the following services: 
o Emergency assistance information such as nearest ambulance / hospital / blood bank 
etc. 
o Second opinion provided through electronic mode: E -opinion (Second opinion) of an 
empanelled medical expert and/or agency. 
o Referral for medical service provider, evacuation/ repatriation services, home nursing 
care etc  
 
d) Affinity to wellness 

--- PAGE 15 ---

ICICI Lombard Complete Health Insurance                   Annexure I                                                                                                    
UIN - ICIHLIP22096V062122 
 
 
                                                                                                                                              Page 15 of 52 
 
We will provide You information on health and wellness training, online fitness portals, sporting 
events, various sports and health relat ed applications, latest fitness accessories through 
periodic communications like e-mailers, blogs, forums etc. and will reward You for undertaking 
any of the fitness & health related activities as given below. 
List of Fitness initiatives and wellness points 
Initiatives Wellness 
Points 
Gym/ Yoga membership for 1 year 2,500 
Participation in Professional sporting events like Marathon/Cyclothon/ 
Swimathon etc. 2,500 
Participation in any other health & fitness activity/ event organized by Us  2,500 
 
You have to provide Us relevant receipts/ bills and /or certificates indicating participation and 
completion of these activities. These fitness centers, gym, yoga centers etc and the companies 
organizing these fitness initiatives should be legally registered e ntities as per rules, regulations as 
applicable by governing law. 
As per the above mentioned activities, You can earn maximum 5,000 wellness points per insured, and 
maximum 10,000 wellness points per floater policy. 
You can also earn 100 wellness points for each of the following activities: 
o Quit smoking- based on Self declaration 
o Share Your fitness success story 
o On winning any Health quiz organized by Us 
 
Redemption of Wellness Points 
Each wellness point will be equivalent to ₹ 0.25. Wellness points not redeemed in the given policy 
year can be carry forwarded maximum up to 3 years from the date of awarding of these points, 
provided the policy is renewed continuously for subsequent 3 years. You can redeem these wellness 
points against out patient medical expenses like consultation charges, medicine & drugs, diagnostic 
expenses, dental expenses, wellness & preventive care and other miscellaneous charges not covered 
under any medical insurance, through our Network providers, the list of which will be updated on our 
website www.icicilombard.com from time to time. In case cashless facility is not available for wellness 
points’ redemption at these network centres, You can avail reimbursement by submitting relevant 
documents with Us. 
Terms and conditions under wellness services 
 Any information provided by You in this regard shall be kept confidential. 
 You should notify and submit relevant documents, reports, receipts etc for various wellness 
activities within 60 days of undertaking such activity. 
 For services that are provided through empanelled ser vice provider, We are only acting as a 
facilitator; hence would not be liable for any incremental costs or the services.  
 All medical services are being provided by empanelled health care service provider. We 
ensure full due diligence before empanelment. Ho wever You should consult Your doctor 
before availing/taking the medical advices/services. The decision to utilize these  
advices/services is solely at Your discretion. 
 There will not be any cash redemption against the wellness points. 

--- PAGE 16 ---

ICICI Lombard Complete Health Insurance                   Annexure I                                                                                                    
UIN - ICIHLIP22096V062122 
 
 
                                                                                                                                              Page 16 of 52 
 
 ICICI Lombard, its group entities, or affiliates, their respective directors, officers, employees, 
agents, vendors, is not responsible for or liable for, any actions, claims, demands, losses, 
damages, costs, charges and expenses which a Member claims to have suffered, sustained  
or incurred, by way of and / or on account of the Program. 
 Services offered are subject to guidelines issued by IRDA from time to time.  
 In case of expiry of policy, the wellness points  may be carried forward for a period not 
exceeding three months. 
 The wellness points accrued shall be at periodic intervals at rates/amounts declared upfront 
at the commencement of the policy and shall not be linked to any dynamic factor such as 
interest rate. 
 
7. Additional Sum Insured (Cumulative Bonus)  
It is hereby declared and agreed that notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Policy, at 
the time of renewal of this Policy, We will provide an additional sum insured (hereinafter referred 
to as “Additional Sum Insured”)  of 10% of annual sum insured for each completed and 
continuous Policy Year subject to a maximum of 50% provided that there is no Claim under this 
Policy during the Policy Year except as an Out-patient.  
However, in the event of a Claim under the Policy during any subsequent Policy Year, the 
accrued Additional Sum Insured will be reduced by 10% of the Annual Sum Insured at the time 
of renewal of this Policy.  
In relation to a Floater Benefit cover, the Additional Sum Insured so accrued during the Claim -
free Policy Year(s) will also be on floater  basis and will only be available to those Insured 
Person(s) who were insured in such Claim-free Policy Year(s) and continue to be insured in the 
subsequent Policy Year(s). 
8. Value-Added Services 
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Policy, We at your request will arrange for You 
or will facilitate You in availing any of the following additional services subject to a limit as 
specified in the Policy Schedule, on issuance or upon renewal of the Policy for a continuous 
period from Period of Insurance  Start Date, as specified in the Policy Schedule, including but 
not limited to:-  
a) Free health check -up coupons to each insured for every Policy Year, subject to a 
maximum of 2 coupons per year for floater policies.  
b) Vaccination care cover  
c) E-opinion (Secon d opinion) of an expert Medical Practitioner from Our designated 
centers, with respect to critical Illnesses and procedures  
d) Other value added services  
i. Diet & nutrition e-consultation  
ii. Online Chat with Medical Practitioners 
iii. Provide information on offers related to healthcare services like consultation, 
diagnostics, medical equipment and pharmacy 
e) Health assistance: We also provide Health Assistance as a part of Our Value added 
services, Our Health Assistance Team (HAT) will as sist the Insured Person in 
understanding his/her health condition better by providing answers to any queries 
related to health and health care providers on Our dedicated helpline. To avail this 
service, the Insured Person may call Our helpline on 040 -66274205 (please note that 
this number is subject to change). 
The services provided under this shall include: 
 Identifying a Physician/ Specialist 

--- PAGE 17 ---

ICICI Lombard Complete Health Insurance                   Annexure I                                                                                                    
UIN - ICIHLIP22096V062122 
 
 
                                                                                                                                              Page 17 of 52 
 
 Scheduling an appointment with any Medical Practitioner empanelled with Us  
 Scheduling appointments for a second opinion 
 Providing suitable options with respect to Hospitals as well as providing 
assistance in Cashless facility, wherever applicable. 
 Providing preventive information on ailments  
 Providing guidance on post Hospitalization care, such as Physiotherapy/ 
Nursing at home. 
Please note that services provided under this Benefit are solely for assistance, and should 
not be construed to be a substitute for a visit/ consultation to an independent Medical 
Practitioner. This Benefit does not include the charges for any independent Medical 
Practitioner/nutritionist consulted on HAT’s recommendation, and such charges are to be 
borne by the Insured Person. We do not accept any liability towards quality of the services 
made available by our network providers/ service providers and are not liable for any 
defects or deficiencies on their part 
 
While deciding to obtain such value -added service, You expressly note and agree that it is 
entirely for You to decide whether to obtain these services and also to decide the use (i f any) 
to which these services is to be put for 
 
 
B. Extensions/ Optional Cover 
The Benefits listed below shall be available to the Insured Person only if the additional 
premium has been received by Us and the Benefit is specified to be in force for that Insured 
Person in the Policy Schedule.  
Benefits under this Section are subject t o the terms, conditions, waiting periods and 
exclusions of this Policy and in accordance with the applicable Plan as specified in the Policy. 
The Reset Benefit under Section d.A. 5, will not be applicable for this Section. Claims under 
this Section will not impact the Sum insured or Cumulative Bonus 
1. Hospital Daily Cash 
In consideration of the payment of additional premium to Us, it is hereby declared and 
agreed that notwithstanding anything to the contrary  in the Policy and subject always to 
the Annual Sum Insured for this Extension, We will pay You a daily cash amount, as stated 
against this Extension in the Policy Schedule, for each and every completed day of 
Hospitalization up to a maximum of 10 consecutive days, if such Hospitalization is at least 
for a minimum of 3 consecutive days and it falls within the Policy Year. The Claim under 
this extension will be payable only if We have admitted Our liability under “In -patient 
Treatment” section of the Policy. 
Subject otherwise to the terms, conditions and exclusions of the Policy 
2. Convalescence Benefit 
In consideration of the payment of additional premium to Us, it is hereby declared and 
agreed that notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Policy, We will pay You an 
amount of Rs. 10,000 if You are Hospitalized for a minimum period of 10 consecutive days, 
due to any Injury or Illness as covered under the Policy. This benefit is payable only once 
to an Insured Person during each Policy Year of the Policy Period. 

--- PAGE 18 ---

ICICI Lombard Complete Health Insurance                   Annexure I                                                                                                    
UIN - ICIHLIP22096V062122 
 
 
                                                                                                                                              Page 18 of 52 
 
Subject otherwise to the terms, conditions and exclusions of the Policy 
 
 
3. Nursing at Home  
In consideration of the payment of additional premium to Us, it is hereby declared and 
agreed that notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Policy and subject always to the  
Annual Sum Insured for this Extension, We will pay You for the expenses incurred by You, 
up to Rs. 3,000 for each day up to a maximum of 15 days post Hospitalization for the 
medical services of a Qualified Nurse  at Your residence, provided that the nurse is 
employed in a Hospit al and the engagement of such Qualified Nurse is certified as 
necessary by a Medical Practitioner and relate directly to any Illness or Injury, covered 
under the Policy. The payment under this extension is subject to admissibility of Your 
Hospitalization Claim under the Policy. 
For the purpose of this extension, the term “Qualified Nurse” means a person who holds a 
valid registration from the Nursing Council of India or the Nursing Council of any state in 
India.   
Subject otherwise to the terms, conditions and exclusions of the Policy 
4. Compassionate Visit 
In consideration of the payment of additional premium to Us, it is hereby declared and 
agreed that  notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Policy, in event of Your 
Hospitalization,  which in the opinion of the Medical Practitioner attending on You, extends 
beyond a period of 5 consecutive days, We will indemnify  the cost of the economy class 
air ticket incurred by Your Immediate Relative from and to the place of origin of such relative 
or the place of residence of the relative. 
Our liability under this benefit, however, in respect of any one event or all events of 
Hospitalization during the Policy Year shall not in aggregate exceed Rs. 20,000 per Policy 
Year of Policy Period. 
For the purpose of this extension, the term “Immediate Relative” would mean the Insured’s 
Spouse, Children & Parents. 
Subject otherwise to the terms, conditions and exclusions of the Polic y 
5. Domestic Road Emergency Ambulance Cover 
In consideration of the payment of additional p remium to Us  it is hereby declared and 
agreed to  cover the expenses incurred on road ambulance services which are offered by 
a healthcare or ambulance service provider and which have been used during the Policy 
Period to transfer the Insured Person to the  nearest Hospital with adequate emergency 
facilities for the provision of Emergency Care, provided that: 
a) Our maximum liability under this Benefit for every claim arising during the Poli cy 
Year will be restricted to Rs 1,500 per hospitalization  
b) We have accepted a claim under Section d .A.1 in respect of the Insured Person 
for the same Accident/Illness for which road ambulance services were availed.  
c) This Benefit includes and is limited to the cost of the transportation of the Insured 
Person:  
i. To the nearest Hospital with higher medical facilities which is prepared to 
admit the Insured Person and provide the necessary medical services if 

--- PAGE 19 ---

ICICI Lombard Complete Health Insurance                   Annexure I                                                                                                    
UIN - ICIHLIP22096V062122 
 
 
                                                                                                                                              Page 19 of 52 
 
such medical services cannot satisfactorily be provided at a Hospital where 
the Insured Person is situated, and only  if that transportation has been 
prescribed in writing by a Medical Practitioner and is for Medically 
Necessary Treatment. 
ii. From a Hospital to the nearest diagnostic centre during the course of 
Hospitalization for advanced diagnostic treatment in circumstances where 
such facility is not available in the existing Hospital. 
d) The ambulance / service provider providing the services be a registered provider 
with road traffic authority. 
Any expenses in relation to transportation of the Insured Person from Hospital to the 
Insured Person’s residence while transferring an Insured Person after he/she has been 
discharged from the Hospital are not payable under this Benefit.  
6. Medical Evacuation Cover 
In consideration of the payment of additional premium to Us, it is hereb y declared and 
agreed that notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Policy and subject always to the 
Annual Sum Insured for this Extension, We will reimburse You for Your reasonable & 
necessary transportation to the nearest Hospital in case of life threatening emergency 
condition for treatment of an Illness or Injury which is admissible and payable under the 
Policy, subject to certification by the Medical Practitioner of such life threatening emergency 
condition. This extension can be availed only once per member during the Policy year 
Subject otherwise to the terms, conditions and exclusions of the Policy 
7. Critical Illness Cover 
In consideration of the payment of additional premium to Us, it is hereby declared and 
agreed that notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Policy, We will pay You the sum 
insured as stated against this Extension in the Policy Schedule, in case You are diagnosed 
as suffering from one or more of the Critical Illnesses for the first time in your life, during 
the Policy Period. 
However, We will not make any payment if You are first diagnosed as suffering from a 
Critical Illness within 90 days of the Period of Insurance Start Date. This benefit can be 
availed by You only once during Your lifetime. No Claim under this Extensio n shall be 
admissible in case any of the Critical Illnesses is a consequence of or arises out of any Pre-
Existing Condition(s)/Disease. 
“Critical Illness” for the purpose of this Policy includes the following:  
a) Cancer of specified severity 
A malignant tumour characterized by the uncontrolled growth & spread of 
malignant cells with invasion & destruction of normal tissues. This diagnosis must 
be supported by histological evidence of malignancy. The term cancer includes 
leukemia, lymphoma and sarcoma. 
The following are excluded – 
i. All tumors which are histologically described as carcinoma in situ, benign, 
pre-malignant, borderline malignant, low malignant potential, neoplasm of 
unknown behavior, or non-invasive, including but not limited to: Carcinoma 
in situ of breasts, Cervical dysplasia CIN-1, CIN 2 and CIN-3 
ii. Any non-melanoma skin carcinoma unless there is evidence of metastases 
to lymph nodes or beyond; 

--- PAGE 20 ---

ICICI Lombard Complete Health Insurance                   Annexure I                                                                                                    
UIN - ICIHLIP22096V062122 
 
 
                                                                                                                                              Page 20 of 52 
 
iii. Malignant melanoma that has not caused invasion beyond the epidermis;  
iv. All tumours of the prostate un less histologically classified as having a 
Gleason score greater than 6 or having progressed to at least clinical TNM 
classification T2N0M0 
v. All Thyroid cancers histologically classified as T1N0M0 (TNM 
Classification) or below 
vi. Chronic lymphocytic leukaemia less than RAI stage 3  
vii. Non-invasive papillary cancer of the bladder histologically described as 
TaN0M0 or of a lesser classification, 
viii. All Gastro-Intestinal Stromal Tumors histologically classified as T1N0M0 
(TNM Classification) or below and with mitotic co unt of less than or equal 
to 5/50 HPFs;   
ix. All tumors in the presence of HIV infection.  
 
 
b) Open chest CABG 
The actual undergoing of heart surgery to correct blockage or narrowing in one or 
more coronary artery(s), by coronary artery bypass grafting done via a sternotomy 
(cutting through the breast bone) or minimally invasive keyhole coronary artery 
bypass procedures. The diagnosis must be supported by a coronary angiography 
and the realization of surgery has to be confirmed by a cardiologist.  
The following are excluded:  
a) Angioplasty and/or any other intra-arterial procedures 
 
c) First heart attack - of specified severity (Myocardial infarction) 
The first occurrence of heart attack or myocardial infarction, which means the death 
of a portion of the heart muscle as a result of inadequate blood supply to the 
relevant area. The diagnosis for Myocardial Infarction should be evidenced by all 
of the following criteria:  
i. A history of typical clinical symptoms consistent with the diagnosis of acute 
myocardial infarction (For e.g. typical chest pain) 
ii. New  characteristic electrocardiogram changes 
iii. Elevation of infarction specific enzymes, Troponins or other s pecific 
biochemical markers.  
The following are excluded:   
i. Other acute Coronary Syndromes   
ii. Any type of angina pectoris   
iii. A rise in cardiac biomarkers or Troponin T or I in absence of overt ischemic 
heart disease OR following an intra-arterial cardiac procedure.  
 
d) Kidney failure requiring regular dialysis 
End stage renal disease presenting as chronic irreversible failure of both kidneys 
to function, as a result of which either regular renal dialysis (hemodialysis or 
peritoneal dialysis) is instituted or renal transplantation is carried out. Diagnosis 
has to be confirmed by a specialist medical practitioner. 
 
e) Major organ /bone marrow transplant 
The actual undergoing of a transplant of: 
i. One of the following human organs: heart, lung, liver, kidney, pancreas , 
that resulted from irreversible end-stage failure of the relevant organ, or 

--- PAGE 21 ---

ICICI Lombard Complete Health Insurance                   Annexure I                                                                                                    
UIN - ICIHLIP22096V062122 
 
 
                                                                                                                                              Page 21 of 52 
 
ii. Human bone marrow using haematopoietic stem cells. The undergoing of 
a transplant has to be confirmed by a specialist medical practitioner. 
The following are excluded: 
i. Other stem-cell transplants 
ii. Where only islets of langerhans are transplanted 
f) Stroke resulting in permanent symptoms 
Any cerebrovascular incident producing permanent neurological sequelae . This 
includes infarction of brain tissue, thrombosis in an intracranial ve ssel, 
haemorrhage and embolisation from an extracranial source. Diagnosis has to be 
confirmed by a specialist medical practitioner and evidenced by typical clinical 
symptoms as well as typical findings in CT Scan or MRI of the brain. Evidence of 
permanent neurological deficit lasting for at least 3 months has to be produced. 
The following are excluded: 
i. Transient ischemic attacks (TIA) 
ii. Traumatic injury of the brain 
iii. Vascular disease affecting only the eye or optic nerve or vestibular 
functions. 
g) Permanent paralysis of limbs 
Total and irreversible loss of use of two or more limbs as a result of injury or disease 
of the brain or spinal cord. A specialist medical practitioner must be of the opinion 
that the paralysis will be permanent with no hope of recovery and must be present 
for more than 3 months. 
h) Open heart replacement or repair of heart valves  
The actual undergoing of open -heart valve surgery is to replace or repair one or 
more heart valves, as a consequence of defects in, abnormalities of, or disease -
affected cardiac valve(s). The diagnosis of the valve abnormality must be 
supported by an echocardiography and the realization of surgery has to be 
confirmed by a specialist medical practitioner. Catheter based techniques including 
but not limited to, balloon valvotomy/valvuloplasty are excluded. 
i) End stage liver failure 
i. Permanent and irreversible failure of liver function that has resulted in all 
three of the following:  
a) Permanent jaundice; and  
b) Ascites; and   
c) Hepatic encephalopathy. 
ii. Liver failure secondary to drug or alcohol abuse is excluded 
Note: In the event of a Claim arising out of any of the Critical Illness or medical procedures 
as covered under this Extension, You should intimate Us within thirty (30) days from the 
date of first diagnosis of such Illness or from the date of surgical procedure or from date of 
occurrence of the medial event as the case may be (irrespective of Your coverage under 
any other health insurance policy). 
Further, You should arrange for submission of the Claim Documents* as stated in the Policy 
including the confirmation from the Medical Practitioner that the Critical Illness or medical 
procedure or medical event for which a Claim has been lodged under this Extension, does 
not relate to any Pre -Existing Condition/Disease(s) or a ny Illness or Injury which existed 
within the first 3 months of the Period of Insurance Start Date.  

--- PAGE 22 ---

ICICI Lombard Complete Health Insurance                   Annexure I                                                                                                    
UIN - ICIHLIP22096V062122 
 
 
                                                                                                                                              Page 22 of 52 
 
*In case You are covered under any health policy of other insurance company and become 
entitled to a Claim under such policy, then  for this Extension, You may submit to Us the 
copies of such Claim Documents provided they are duly certified by such insurance 
company or any hospital where You are getting treated, as applicable 
The cover under this extension shall terminate in the event of Your Claim becoming 
admissible hereunder. In consequence thereof no benefit shall be payable to You under 
this extension of the policy thereafter. 
8. Personal Accident cover 
In consideration of the payment of additional premium to Us, it is hereby declared and 
agreed that notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Policy, We will pay You or Your 
Nominee / legal heir, as the case may be, the sum insured as specified against this 
Extension in the Policy Schedule, on occurrence of any Insured Event, as specifically 
described hereunder, arising due to an Injury sustained by You during the Policy Year:  
 Insured Event – Accidental Death  
We will pay Your Nominee / legal heir, as the case may be, the sum insured as 
specified against this Extension in the Policy Schedule, on the  unfortunate event 
of Your death, provided such death results solely and directly from an Injury 
sustained within a period of twelve months from the date of Accident resulting in 
such Injury.  
Provided that the date of occurrence of the Accident falls within the Policy Year. 
 Insured Event – Permanent Total Disablement (PTD) resulting from Accident 
We will pay You the sum insured as specified against this Extension in the Policy 
Schedule on the occurrence of any of the following losses, provide such losses are 
total, permanent and irrecoverable resulting solely and directly from an Injury 
sustained within a period of twelve months from the date of Accident resulting in 
such Injury:  
i. Loss of use of both eyes, or physical separation/ loss of use of two entire 
hands or two entire feet, or one entire hand and one entire foot, or of such 
loss of use of one eye and such physical separation/ loss of use of one 
entire hand or one entire foot  
ii. Physical separation/ loss of use of two hands or two feet, or one hand and 
one foot, or of Loss of Use of one eye and loss of use of one hand or one 
foot 
If such Injury results in permanently and totally, disabling the Insured 
Person from engaging in any employment or occupation of any description 
whatsoever 
Provided that the date of occurrence of the Accident falls within the Policy Year. 
 
Notwithstanding anything, We shall not be liable to pay You under this Extension for:  
i. Compensation under more than one of the categories as specified in the Insured 
Event, during the Policy Year 
ii. Payment of compensation in respect of Death or Permanent Total Disablement 
arising from or resulting from any Illness unless such Illness arose directly as a 
consequence of an Accident 
iii. Compensation in respect of a death or disablement resulting from, whilst:  
a) engaging in aviation or ballooning, or whilst mounting into, or dismounting 
from or traveling in any balloon or aircraft other than as a passenger (fare-
paying or otherwise) in any scheduled airlines in the world, or engaging in 
any kind of adventure sports for personal gratification 

--- PAGE 23 ---

ICICI Lombard Complete Health Insurance                   Annexure I                                                                                                    
UIN - ICIHLIP22096V062122 
 
 
                                                                                                                                              Page 23 of 52 
 
b) participating in winter sports, skydiving/parachuting, hang gliding, bungee 
jumping, scuba diving, mountain   climbing (where ropes or guides are 
customarily used), riding or driving in races or rallies using a motoriz ed 
vehicle or bicycle, caving or pot -holing, hunting or equestrian activities, 
skin diving or other underwater activity, rafting or canoeing involving white 
water rapids, yachting or boating outside coastal waters (2 miles), 
participation in any  professio nal sports, any bodily contact sport or any 
other hazardous or potentially dangerous sport for which You are untrained 
c) working in underground mines or explosives magazines, or involving 
electrical installation with high tension supply, or as jockeys or cir cus 
personnel, or engaged in activities like racing on wheels or horseback, big 
game hunting, mountaineering, winter sports, rock climbing, pot holing, 
bungee jumping, skiing, ice hockey, ballooning, hang gliding, river rafting, 
polo and persons whilst engaged in occupation / activities of similar hazard 
d) serving in any branch of the military or armed forces of any country during 
war or warlike operations 
iv. Compensation in respect of death or disablement  
a) arising or resulting from You committing any breach of law with a malafide 
or criminal intent 
b) caused by venereal disease. 
c) resulting from, or contributed to or aggravated or prolonged by childbirth 
or pregnancy or in consequence thereof 
 
The cover under this Extension shall be available only once during Your lifetime. 
Claims documents: You or Your Nominee/ legal heir, as the case may be, shall be 
required to furnish the following for or in support of a Claim: 
i. In case of Death 
a) Policy Copy 
b) Claim form duly filled & signed by Nominee 
c) Post Mortem Report (certified copies) – as applicable and 
wherever conducted 
d) F.I.R. or Death report or Inquest Panchnama (in original or 
certified copies)- 
e) Spot Panchnama (certified copies)- if applicable 
f) Death certificate (in original or certified copy) 
g) Any other document as may be required by Us. 
ii. In case of PTD  
a) Policy Copy 
b) Claim form duly filled & signed by You 
c) Disability certificate –by an authorized Medical Practitioner of the 
district/ units concerned, stating percentage of disablement 
d) F.I.R. and Panchnama wherever applicable (ori ginal or certified 
copies) 
e) Medical report 
f) Original bills, receipts and discharge certificate/card from the 
Hospital/Medical Practitioner 
g) Original bills from chemists supported by proper prescription 
h) Investigation reports like laboratory test, X -rays and re ports 
essential of confirmation of the type and percentage of disability 
and payment receipts 

--- PAGE 24 ---

ICICI Lombard Complete Health Insurance                   Annexure I                                                                                                    
UIN - ICIHLIP22096V062122 
 
 
                                                                                                                                              Page 24 of 52 
 
i) Photo of Insured Person showing the disability 
j) Any other document as may be required by the Us 
If You are covered under any health and accident insurance policy o f other insurance 
company and become entitled to Claim under such policy, then You can submit to Us the 
copies of the above–listed documents / medical records, provided they are duly certified by 
such insurance company or any hospital where You are getting treated, as applicable. 
Note: The cover under this extension shall terminate in the event of Your Claim becoming 
admissible hereunder. In consequence thereof no benefit shall be payable under this 
extension of the policy thereafter 
Subject otherwise to the terms, conditions and exclusions of the Policy 
9. Donor Expenses 
In consideration of the payment of additional premium to Us, We will indemnify the Insured 
person up to the sum insured as specified in the policy schedule for the Medical Expenses 
incurred in respect of the donor for any of the organ transplant surgery, provided the organ 
donated is for the insured person’s use and We have admitted the In patient Hospitalization 
Claim under the base plan. 
We shall not be liable to pay for any claim under this Benefit which arises directly or 
indirectly for or in connection with any of the following: 
i. Pre-hospitalization Medical Exp enses or Post -hospitalization Medical 
Expenses of the organ donor. 
ii. Screening expenses of the organ donor. 
iii. Any other Medical Expenses as a result of the harvesting from the organ 
donor. 
iv. Costs directly or indirectly associated with the acquisition of the don or’s 
organ. 
v. Transplant of any organ/tissue where the transplant is experimental or 
investigational. 
vi. Expenses related to organ transportation or preservation. 
vii. Expenses incurred by an Insured Person as a donor. 
viii. Any other medical treatment or complication in respect of the donor, 
consequent to harvesting. 
10. Outpatient Treatment Cover  
In consideration of the payment of additional premium to Us, it is hereby declared and 
agreed that notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Policy, We will cover You for the 
Medical Expenses incurred by You as an Out -patient subject to Annual Sum Insured as 
mentioned against this benefit under this Policy. 
For the purpose of this extension, Out -patient will mean the insured patient who is not 
hospitalized for more than 24 consecutive hours but who visits a Hospital, clinic, or 
associated facility for diagnosis or treatment. 
Exclusion applicable to Outpatient Treatment 
We shall not be liable to make any payment under this Extension in connection with or in 
respect of any expenses whatsoever incurred by You in connection with or in respect of:  
a) Intentional self -injury (whether arising from an attempt to commit suicide or 
otherwise)  

--- PAGE 25 ---

ICICI Lombard Complete Health Insurance                   Annexure I                                                                                                    
UIN - ICIHLIP22096V062122 
 
 
                                                                                                                                              Page 25 of 52 
 
b) Use, misuse or abuse of intoxicating drugs or alcohol 
c) Aesthetic treatment, cosmetic surgery and plastic surgery including any 
complications arising out of or attributable to these, unless necessitated due to 
Accident or as a part of any Illness 
d) Any treatment/surgery for change of sex or treatment/surgery/complications/Illness 
arising as a consequence thereof 
e) Experimental, unproven or non -standard treatment which is not consistent with or 
incidental to the usual diagnosis and treatment of any Illness or Injury 
f) Expenses for treatment directly arising from or consequent upon any Insured Person 
committing or attempting to commit a breach of law with criminal intent 
g) Treatment taken outside the country 
h) Any Illness or Injury resulting or arising from or occurring during the commi ssion of 
continuing perpetration of a violation of law by an Insured with any malafide or 
criminal intent  
i) Any injury or illness caused by or arising from or attributed to war, invasion, acts of 
foreign enemies, hostilities (whether war be declared or not), civil war, commotion, 
unrest, rebellion, revolution, military or usurped power or confiscation or 
nationalisation or requisition of or damage by or under the order of any government 
or public local authority. 
j) Any Illness or Injury caused by or contri buted to by nuclear weapons/materials or 
contributed to by or arising from ionising radiation or contamination by radioactivity 
by any nuclear fuel or from any nuclear waste or from the combustion of nuclear fuel. 
 
Claim Documents for Extension 10 
You will be required to furnish the following documents in original for or in support of a 
Claim: 
 Duly completed Claim form 
 Bills / invoices raised in Your name 
 Test reports and payment receipts 
 Any other document as required by Us 
Payment of Claims 
The claims under this extension shall be done only once per insured member during each 
Policy Year of the Policy Period 
The claim under this extension shall be done only after the first 90 days from Policy Start 
Date. No Claim will be admissible under this extension,  30 days after the expiry of Policy 
Year.  
Subject otherwise to the terms and conditions of the Policy. 
11. Wellness & Preventive Healthcare  
In consideration of the payment of additional premium to Us, it is hereby declared and 
agreed that notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Policy, We will cover you for the 

--- PAGE 26 ---

ICICI Lombard Complete Health Insurance                   Annexure I                                                                                                    
UIN - ICIHLIP22096V062122 
 
 
                                                                                                                                              Page 26 of 52 
 
expenses incurred subject to Annual Sum Insured as mentioned against this benefit under 
this Policy for 
a) Routine physical & preventive examinations  
b) Vaccinations 
c) Education, consultation and training programs in the following domains:  
 Health including nutrition tips, diet information, heart health tips, diabetes 
prevention, cancer / HIV awareness, physicals and screenings  
 Wellness including exercise guidelines, workplace stret ching and warm -
ups, low-back pain, cumulative trauma disorders, smoking cessation, drug 
and alcohol education 
 Safety including ergonomics, cumulative trauma and back care, 
respiratory, hearing, blood-borne pathogens, CPR/first aid, heat stress and 
hazard identification 
d) Fitness programs including gymnasium, yoga, spa therapy and massage centers  
e) Pandemic preparedness in terms of providing necessary drugs and equipment to 
protect the insured   
 
Payment of Claims 
The reimbursement of claims under this extension  shall be done only once per insured 
member during each Policy Year of the Policy Period. 
We will not receive any Claims prior to completion of 90 days of the commencement of the 
Policy (unless otherwise specified in the Policy Schedule). No Claim will be admissible 
under this extension, 30 days after the expiry of Policy Year. 
Claim Documents 
You will be required to furnish the following documents in original for or in support of a 
Claim: 
 Duly completed Claim form 
 Bills / invoices raised in Your name 
 Test reports and payment receipts 
 Any other document as required by Us 
Subject otherwise to the terms, conditions and exclusions of the Policy. 
12. Maternity Benefit 
In consideration of the payment of additional premium to Us, it is hereby declared and 
agreed that notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in the Policy and subject 
always to the Annual Sum Insured as mentioned against this Extension in the Policy 
Schedule, We will reimburse You for Medical Expenses incurred for delivery, including a 
caesarian section, during Hospitalization or lawful medical termination of pregnancy during 
the Policy Year.   
The cover shall be limited to 2 deliveries/ terminations during the Period of Insurance.  Pre-
natal and postnatal expenses shall be covered up to the amo unt as stated in the Policy 
Schedule. Provided always that;  
a) The cover under this extension shall be available after 36 months of continuous 
coverage have elapsed since the inception of the first Policy with Us.  
b) Pre- and Post-Hospitalization expenses under 2 (C) will not be covered under this 
extension 
c) This benefit is available only under a family floater Policy 
d) This benefit is available for You or Your spouse provided You and Your spouse, 
both are covered under the same family floater Policy 

--- PAGE 27 ---

ICICI Lombard Complete Health Insurance                   Annexure I                                                                                                    
UIN - ICIHLIP22096V062122 
 
 
                                                                                                                                              Page 27 of 52 
 
e) We will not cover ectopic pregnancy under this benefit (the same shall be covered 
under In-patient Treatment) 
Subject otherwise to the terms, conditions and exclusions under the Policy. 
13. New Born Baby Cover 
In consideration of the payment of additional premium to Us , it is hereby declared and 
agreed that notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Policy, the coverage under the 
Policy is extended to reimburse the Medical Expenses incurred by You on Hospitalization 
of a “New born Baby” during each Policy Year of P olicy Period subject to the Annual Sum 
Insured for this Extension as stated in the Policy Schedule. This cover will be provided only 
if maternity cover is applicable to You. 
This Extension will cover Medical Expenses incurred on the “New born Baby” during 
Hospitalisation (for a minimum period of consecutive 24 hours) for a maximum period up 
to 91 days from the date of birth of the baby  
“New born Baby” means baby born during the Policy Period and is aged between 1 day 
and 90 days, both days inclusive. 
Subject otherwise to the terms, conditions and exclusions of the Polic y 
14. Voluntary Deductible 
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Policy, it is hereby expressed and agreed 
that You have voluntarily opted for a Deductible, as specifically appearing in the Policy 
Schedule, in consideration for a reduction in premium amount payable for this Policy.  
Deductible will be applicable for each and every Claim during the Policy Year before it becomes 
payable by Us under the Policy. 
Subject otherwise to the terms, conditions and exclusions of the Policy 
15. Sub Limits on Medical Expenses/ Illness/ Surgeries / Procedures 
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Policy and subject to the Maximum Limit of 
Indemnity, Our maximum liability to make paymen t for the Medical Expenses  incurred 
during any Hospitalisation (including its related Pre and Post Hospitalization expenses if 
applicable) due to the below mentioned Surgeries / Medical Procedures or any medical 
treatment pertaining to an Illness / Injury shall be limited as per the table below: 
 
S. No. Surgeries / Medical Procedures Sub-limits (Rs.) 
  A1 B6 C2 
1 Cataract per eye 10,000 15,000 20,000 
2 Other Eye Surgeries 15,000 22,000 35,000 
3 ENT 15,000 22,000 35,000 
4 Surgeries for - 
Tumors/Cysts/Nodule/Polyp 20,000 
30,000 60,000 
5 Stone in Urinary System 20,000 30,000 40,000 
6 Hernia Related 20,000 30,000 60,000 
7 Appendisectomy 20,000 30,000 40,000 
                                                           
1 Sub-limits A & B shall be applicable for Annual Sum Insured  options up to Rs. 2 lacs  
2 Sub-limit C shall be applicable for Annual Sum Insured of Rs. 3 Lacs and above, as per the Plan 

--- PAGE 28 ---

ICICI Lombard Complete Health Insurance                   Annexure I                                                                                                    
UIN - ICIHLIP22096V062122 
 
 
                                                                                                                                              Page 28 of 52 
 
8 Knee Ligament Reconstruction 
Surgery 40,000 
60,000 90,000 
9 Hysterectomy 20,000 30,000 60,000 
10 Fissures/Piles/Fistulas 15,000 22,000 35,000 
11 Spine & Vertebrae related 40,000 60,000 90,000 
12 Cellulites/Abscess  15,000 22,000 35,000 
All Medical Expenses for any treatment not 
involving surgery/medical procedure 
10,000 15,000 25,000 
 
Any complications resulting from or arising out of any surgery or medical procedure shall 
be subject to the overall sub-limit, as applicable  
No Sub-limits shall be applicable on any Major Medical Illness & Procedures and Joint 
Replacement Surgery. Major Medical Illness & Procedures for the purpose of this Policy 
shall mean and include the following: 
1. Cancer of Specified Severity 
2. Kidney Failure Requiring Dialysis 
3. Major Organ /Bone marrow Transplant 
4. All cardiac surgeries / conditions including but not limited Open Chest CABG 
5. Multiple Sclerosis 
6. Stroke Resulting in Permanent Symptoms 
7. Permanent Paralysis of  Limbs 
8. All brain related surgeries 
The sub -limits mentioned above shall be applicable for each Hospitalization. For the 
purpose of applicability of the said sub -limits, multiple Hospitalizations pertaining to the 
same Illness or medical procedure / surgery occurring within a period of 45 days from the 
date of discharge of the first Hospitalization shall be considered as one Hospitaliz ation. 
Subject otherwise to the terms, conditions and exclusions of the Policy 
16. Super No Claim Bonus 
In consideration of payment of additional premium to Us, the insured person can avail the 
benefit under super no claim bonus.   All terms and conditions applicable to the additional 
sum insured feature will apply to this cover as well, except for the below mentioned terms 
and conditions: 
 If no claims have been paid in the expiring Policy year and the policy is being renewed 
without any break in period the Insured person will be given a Super no claim bonus 
viz.  50% increase in the Sum insured for each completed year. 
 Super no claim bonus will be over and above the accrued additional sum insured, if 
any. 
 The Super no claim bonus cannot, at any given Policy year , exceed the below 
mentioned % of the annual  Sum insured  
Sum Insured Super no claim bonus as % of Annual SI 
5L to 10L 100% 
15L to 50L 200% 
 In the event of a claim in the Policy year, the super no claim bonus will reduce  by 
50%. 
 At the time of renewal if the Insured person opts out of this optional cover, then the 
Super no claim bonus accrued up until the expiring policy year will be forfeited.  

--- PAGE 29 ---

ICICI Lombard Complete Health Insurance                   Annexure I                                                                                                    
UIN - ICIHLIP22096V062122 
 
 
                                                                                                                                              Page 29 of 52 
 
 In case no claims are made in the Policy year, the super no claim bonus will b e 
credited automatically to the subsequent policy year even in the case of multi-year 
policies (2 & 3 year policy tenure) 
17. Sum Insured Protector  
In consideration of payment of additional premium to Us, the insured  person can avail the 
benefit under sum insured protector.  The Sum Insured protector is designed to protect the 
Sum Insured against rising inflation by linking the Sum Insured under the base plan to the 
Consumer Price index (CPI). 
The Sum Insured will be increas ed on cumulative basis at each renewal on the basis of 
inflation rate in previous\ year. Inflation rate would be computed as the average CPI of the 
entire calendar year published by the Central Statistical Organisation (CSO).  
The % increase will be applicable only on Annual Sum Insured under the Policy and not on 
additional sum insured or any other benefit which leads to increase in Sum Insured. 
18. Claim Protector 
In consideration of payment of additional premium to Us, the insured can avail the benefit 
as mentioned under claim protector . If a claim has been accepted under the inpatient 
hospitalization cover, then the items which are not payable under the claim  as per the List 
of Excluded items released by IRDAI that is related to the particular claim will become 
payable. The maximum claim payout under this benefit shall be limited to Annual Sum 
Insured under your  policy.  
19. ASI protector 
In consideration of payment of additional premium to Us, the insured can avail the benefit 
as mentioned under additional SI protector. Additional sum insured (ASI) accrued by the 
Insured person will not be impacted or reduced at renewal if any one claim or multiple 
claims admissible in the previous policy year under the base policy does not exceed the 
overall amount of Rs. 50,000. 
20. Domiciliary Hospitalization 
In consideration of the payment of additional premium to Us , We will cover the Medical 
Expenses incurred in respect of the Domiciliary Hospitalization of the Insured Person during 
the Policy Period provided that: 
i. The Domiciliary Hospitalization is for Medically Necessary Treatment. 
ii. The Domiciliary Hospitalization commences and continues on the written advice of 
a Medical Practitioner. 
iii. The Medical Expenses incurred are Reasonable and Customary Charges. 
iv. The Domiciliary Hospitalization continues for at least 3 consecutive days in which 
case We will make payment under this Benefit in respect of Medical Expenses 
incurred from the first day of Domiciliary Hospitalization. 
v. Any Medical Expenses payable shall not in aggregate ex ceed the maximum Sum 
Insured and cumulative bonus (if any) as specified in the Policy Schedule against 
this Benefit. 
We shall not be liable to pay for any claim under this Benefit which arises directly or 
indirectly from or in connection with any of the following: 
a) Asthma, bronchitis, tonsillitis and upper respiratory tract infection including 
laryngitis and pharyngitis, cough and cold, influenza; 
b) Arthritis, gout and rheumatism;  

--- PAGE 30 ---

ICICI Lombard Complete Health Insurance                   Annexure I                                                                                                    
UIN - ICIHLIP22096V062122 
 
 
                                                                                                                                              Page 30 of 52 
 
c) Ailments of spine/disc 
d) Chronic nephritis and nephritic syndrome; 
e) Any liver disease; 
f) Peptic ulcer 
g) Diarrhea and all type of dysenteries, including gastroenteritis; 
h) Diabetes mellitus and insipidus; 
i) Epilepsy; 
j) Hypertension; 
k) Pyrexia of any origin 
21. Air Ambulance Cover 
In consideration of the payment of additional premium to Us , We will cover the expenses 
incurred on air ambulance services in respect of an Insured Person which are offered by a 
healthcare or an air ambulance service provider and which have been used during the 
Policy Period to transfer the Insured Person to the nea rest Hospital with adequate 
emergency facilities for the provision of Emergency Care, provided that:  
i. Our maximum liability under this Benefit for any and all claims arising during the 
Policy Year will be restricted to the Sum insured as stated in the Policy Schedule; 
ii. It is for a life threatening emergency health condition/s of the Insured Person which 
requires immediate and rapid ambulance transportation from the place where the 
Insured Person is situated at the time of requiring Emergency Care to a hospit al 
provided that the transportation is for Medically Necessary Treatment, is certified 
in writing by a Medical Practitioner, and road ambulance services  cannot be 
provided. 
iii. Such air ambulance providing the services, should be duly licensed to operate as 
such by a competent government Authority. 
iv. This cover is limited to transportation from the area of emergency to the nearest 
Hospital only;  
v. We will not cover: 
a) Any transportation from one Hospital to another; 
b) Any transportation of the Insured Person from Hospital to the Insured 
Person’s residence after he/she has been discharged from the Hospital 
c) Any transportation or air ambulance expenses incurred outside the 
geographical scope of India. 
vi. We have a ccepted a claim under Section d .A.1 in respect of the Insu red Person 
for the same Accident/Illness for which air ambulance services were availed.  
vii. We shall not be liable if Medically Necessary Treatment can be provided at the 
Hospital where the Insured Person is situated at the time of requiring Emergency 
Care. 
22. Unlimited Reset Benefit 
In consideration of the payment of additional premium to Us , Reset will be available 
unlimited times in a policy year in case the Sum insured including accrued Additional Sum 
Insured (if any) and Super No Claim Bonus (if any) , Sum Insured protector (if any)  is 
insufficient as a result of previous claims in that policy year, provided that: 
 The total amount of reset will not exceed the Annual Sum Insured for that policy year 
 The reset amount can only be used for all future claims within the same policy year 
 The claim will be admissible under the reset only if the claim is admissible as per terms 
and conditions of the base policy 
 Reset will not trigger for the first claim 

--- PAGE 31 ---

ICICI Lombard Complete Health Insurance                   Annexure I                                                                                                    
UIN - ICIHLIP22096V062122 
 
 
                                                                                                                                              Page 31 of 52 
 
 For individual policies, reset Sum Insured will be available on individual basis whereas 
for floater policies, it will be available on floater basis 
 Any unutilized reset Sum Insured will not be carried forward to subsequent policy year 
 The reset amount can only be used for all future claims within the same policy year, 
not related to the illness/ disease/ injury for which a claim has been paid in that policy 
year for the same person. 
 For any single claim during a policy year, the maximum claim amount payable shall 
not exceed the sum of  
o The Sum Insured,  
o Additional Sum Insured, and  
o Super No claim Bonus 
o Sum insured protector 
 During a Policy Year, the aggregate claim amount payable, shall not exceed the sum 
of: 
o The Sum Insured 
o Additional Sum Insured 
o Super No claim Bonus 
o Sum insured protector 
23. Worldwide Cover 
In consideration of the payment of additional premium to Us, We will indemnify the Insured 
person for hospitalization expenses including planned hospitalisation incurred outside India 
and anywhere across the world including USA and Canada, upto the amount spe cified 
under against this benefit in the policy schedule subject to the terms & conditions specified 
hereunder: 
i. A co-pay of 10% will be applied to every admissible claim over and above 
to any other co-pay charged 
ii. The benefit is available for 45 consecutive  days from the date of travel in 
a single trip and 90 days in a cumulative bases as a whole in a Policy year  
iii. The expenses covered under this benefit will be limited to inpatient 
hospitalization expenses and days care treatment/ procedure expenses. 
Expenses incurred for pre and post hospitalization will not be covered 
under this benefit. 
iv. The payment of any claim under this benefit will be based on the rate of 
exchange as on Date of Loss published by Reserve Bank of India (RBI) 
and shall be used for conversi on of Foreign Currency into Indian rupees 
for payment of claims. If on the insured person ’s date of loss, if the RBI 
rates are not published, the exchange rates published next shall be 
considered for conversion 
24. Emergency Services  
i. Domestic Road Ambulance: 
We will cover the expenses incurred on road ambulance services which are offered by a 
healthcare or ambulance service provider and which have been used during the Policy 
Period to transfer the Insured Person to the nearest Hospital with adequate emergency 
facilities for the provision of Emergency Care, provided that: 
 Our maximum liability under this Benefit for every claim arising during the Policy Year 
will be restricted to 1% of the Sum insured maximum up to Rs. 10,000; 
 We have accepted a claim under Section d.A.1 in respect of the Insured Person for 
the same Accident/Illness for which road ambulance services were availed. 

--- PAGE 32 ---

ICICI Lombard Complete Health Insurance                   Annexure I                                                                                                    
UIN - ICIHLIP22096V062122 
 
 
                                                                                                                                              Page 32 of 52 
 
 This Benefit includes and is limited to the cost of the transportation of the Insured 
Person:  
a) To the nearest Hospital with higher medical facilities which is prepared to 
admit the Insured Person and provide the necessary medical services if 
such medical services cannot satisfactorily be provided at a Hospital where 
the Insured Person is situated, a nd only if that transportation has been 
prescribed in writing by a Medical Practitioner and is for Medically 
Necessary Treatment.  
b) From a Hospital to the nearest diagnostic centre during the course of 
Hospitalization for advanced diagnostic treatment in circumstances where 
such facility is not available in the existing Hospital. 
 The ambulance / service provider providing the services be a registered provider with 
road traffic authority. 
Any expenses in relation to transportation of the Insured Person from H ospital to the 
Insured Person’s residence while transferring an Insured Person after he/she has 
been discharged from the Hospital are not payable under this Benefit.  
ii. Ambulance Assistance 
We will arrange ground medical transportation by a Service provider to transport the 
Insured Person to the nearest Hospital or any clinic or nursing home for medically 
necessary treatment on cashless basis subject to availability of services in that particular 
city/location. Kindly visit our website for updated list of cities/locations where the services 
are provided. 
1. The services under this Benefit are subject to the following conditions: 
 The medical transportation is for a life threatening health condition of the Insured 
Person which requires immediate and rapid transportation to the Hospital; as 
certified in writing by the Medical practitioner 
 The Insured Person is in India and the treatment is in India only; 
 The ambulance service is availed within the same city 
 The services can be availed on cashless basis only; 
2. Process to avail Ambulance Assistance: 
a) On calling Our helpline number provided below, Our trained customer service 
executive (CSE) will ask the Insured person relevant questions to assess the 
situation.  
b) The call may be redirected to a qualified Medical Practitioner in order to evaluate 
the requirement for an ambulance with Advanced Life Support based on the 
Insured Person’s condition.  
c) The below mentioned details are to be made available for availing the services: 
1. UHID of Insured Person, as provided on the Health Card. 
2. Contact number of the Insured Person 
3. Location of Insured Person 
How to Call an Ambulance? 
 

--- PAGE 33 ---

ICICI Lombard Complete Health Insurance                   Annexure I                                                                                                    
UIN - ICIHLIP22096V062122 
 
 
                                                                                                                                              Page 33 of 52 
 
 
iii. Tele Consultation 
We will arrange consultations and recommendations for routine health issues by a 
qualified Medical Practitioner or health care professional. For the purpose of this benefit 
Telephonic/Virtual consultation shall mean consultation provided by a qualified Medical 
Practitioner or Health care professional through various mode of communica tion like 
audio, video, online portal, chat or mobile app. The services provided under this Benefit 
will be made available subject to the terms and conditions, and in the manner prescribed 
below: 
 The Medical Practitioner may suggest/recommend/prescribe over the counter 
medications based on the information provided, if required on a case to case basis. 
However, the services under this Benefit should not be construed to constitute 
medical advice and/or substitute the Insured Person's visit/ consultation to  an 
independent Medical Practitioner/Healthcare professional*. 
 This service will be available 24 hours a day, and 365 days in a year. 
 We/Medical Practitioner/Healthcare professional may refer the Insured Person to a 
specialist or a general physician, if required**, and the charges for such specialist or 
a general physician will have to be borne by the Insured Person. 
 We shall not be liable for any discrepancy in the information provided under this 
Benefit. 
 Choosing the services under this Benefit is purely upon the customer’s own discretion 
and at own risk. 
*The p roposer should seek assistance from a health care professional when 
interpreting and applying them to the Insured person’s individual circumstances. If 
the Insured person has any concerns about His/  her health, He/ She may consult 
His/ her general practitioner.   
**Consultations charges would be applicable. 
 
 
e. EXCLUSIONS UNDER THE POLICY 
We will not be liable for any Deductible amount, if applicable and as specifically defined in the 
Policy Schedule under the Policy 
We shall not be liable to make any payment under this Policy in connection with or in respect of 
any expenses whatsoever incurred by You in connection with or in respect of:  
 
Call 18001028136 to 
reach the 
Emergency 
Response Centre
An IVRS will ask you 
to select  option 1or 
2 depending on 
requirement. 
Dial 1 for Medical 
Ambulance Services
Call will be 
answered by an CSE 
& details like name, 
UHID, nature of 
emergency will be 
asked
Emergency 
Ambulance 
Transport will arrive 
Patient will be taken 
to the nearest 
hospital as per the 
predefined hospital 
network chart
Doctor may 
accompany patient 
in the ambulance if 
required

--- PAGE 34 ---

ICICI Lombard Complete Health Insurance                   Annexure I                                                                                                    
UIN - ICIHLIP22096V062122 
 
 
                                                                                                                                              Page 34 of 52 
 
i. Standard Exclusion (Exclusions for which standard wordings are specified by 
IRDAI) 
 
E.1 Code- Excl01: Pre-Existing Diseases  
a) Expenses related to the treatment of a pre -existing Disease (PED) and its direct 
complications shall be excluded until the expiry of 24 months 3 of continuous coverage 
after the date of inception of the first policy with insurer. 
b) In case of enhancement of sum insured the exclusion shall apply afresh to the extent of 
sum insured increase. 
c) If the Insured Person is continuously covered without any br eak as defined under the 
portability norms of the extant IRDAI (Health  Insurance) Regulations, then waiting 
period for the same would be reduced to the extent of prior coverage 
d) Coverage under the policy after the expiry of 24 months for any pre -existing disease is 
subject to the same being declared at the time of application and accepted by Insurer.  
 
E.2 Code- Excl02: Specified disease/procedure waiting period 
a) Expenses related to the treatment of the listed Conditions, surgeries/treatments shall 
be excluded  until the expiry of 24 months of continuous coverage after the date of 
inception of the first policy with us. This exclusion shall not be applicable for claims 
arising due to an accident. 
b) In case of enhancement of sum insured the exclusion shall apply afresh to the extent of 
sum insured increase. 
c) If any of the specified disease/procedure falls under the waiting period specified for pre-
Existing diseases, then the longer of the two waiting periods shall apply.  
d) The waiting period for listed conditions shall apply even if contracted after the policy or 
declared and accepted without a specific exclusion. 
e) If the Insured Person is continuously covered without any break as defined under the 
applicable norms on portability stipulated by IRDAI, then waiting period f or the same 
would be reduced to the extent of prior coverage. 
 
List of specific diseases/procedure: 
• Cataract* 
• Benign Prostatic Hypertrophy 
• Myomectomy, Hysterectomy unless because of malignancy 
• All types of Hernia, Hydrocele 
• Fissures &/or Fistula in anus, hemorrhoids/piles 
• Arthritis, gout, rheumatism and spinal disorders 
• Joint replacements unless due to accident 
• Sinusitis and related disorders 
• Stones in the urinary and billiary systems 
• Dilatation and curettage , Endometriosis 
• All types of Skin and internal tumors/ cysts/nodules/ polyps of any kind including 
breast lumps unless malignant 
• Dialysis required for chronic renal failure 
• Surgery on tonsils, adenoids and sinuses 
• Gastric and Duodenal erosions & ulcers 
• Deviated Nasal Septum 
• Varicose Veins/ Varicose Ulcers 
• All types of internal congenital anomalies/ illness/defects 
                                                           
3 Pre-existing waiting period of 48 months will be applicable for sum insured options of upto  2Lacs 

--- PAGE 35 ---

ICICI Lombard Complete Health Insurance                   Annexure I                                                                                                    
UIN - ICIHLIP22096V062122 
 
 
                                                                                                                                              Page 35 of 52 
 
 
* After two years from the Period of Insurance Start Date, Our maximum liability arising out of 
any Claim for a cataract treatment shall not exceed Rs. 20,000 per eye, during each Policy 
Year of the Policy Period for plans with Sum Insured up to ₹5Lacs. Sub limit of ₹1,00,000 per 
eye per Policy year will be applicable for Cataract surgery for plans with Sum Insured above 
₹5Lacs. 
  
In case the above Illnesses are Pre -existing condition(s) at th e commencement of this Policy, 
then these Illnesses shall be covered after 24 months 4 of continuous coverage has elapsed, 
since Period of Insurance Start Date. 
 
E.3 
a) Expenses related to the treatment of the below mentioned illness within 90 days from 
the first policy commencement date shall be excluded unless they are pre -existing 
and disclosed at the time of underwriting 
i. Hypertension 
ii. Diabetes 
iii. Cardiac Conditions 
b) This exclusion shall not, however, apply if the Insured Person has continuous 
coverage for more than twelve months. 
c) The within referred waiting period is made applicable to the enhanced sum insured  
in the event of granting higher sum insured subsequently. 
 
 
 
E.4 Code- Excl03: 30-day waiting period 
a) Expenses related to the treatment of any illness wit hin 30 days from the first policy 
commencement date shall be excluded except claims arising due to an accident, 
provided the same are covered. 
b) This exclusion shall not, however, apply if the Insured Person has Continuous 
Coverage for more than twelve months. 
c) The within referred waiting period is made applicable to the enhanced sum insured in 
the event of granting higher sum insured subsequently. 
 
E.5 Permanent Exclusions 
 
i. Code- Excl04: Investigation & Evaluation 
a) Expenses related to any admission primarily for diagnostics and evaluation 
purposes only are excluded. 
b) Any diagnostic expenses which are not related or not incidental to the current 
diagnosis and treatment are excluded. 
 
ii. Code- Excl05: Exclusion Name: Rest Cure, rehabilitation and respite care 
a) Expenses related to any admission primarily for enforced bed rest and not for 
receiving treatment. This also includes: 
I. Custodial care either at home or in a nursing facility for personal care 
such as help with activities of daily living such as bathing, dressing , 
moving around either by skilled nurses or assistant or non -skilled 
persons. 
                                                           
4 Pre-existing waiting period of 48 months will be applicable for sum insured options of upto 2Lacs 
 

--- PAGE 36 ---

ICICI Lombard Complete Health Insurance                   Annexure I                                                                                                    
UIN - ICIHLIP22096V062122 
 
 
                                                                                                                                              Page 36 of 52 
 
II. Any services for people who are terminally ill to address physical, 
social, emotional and spiritual needs. 
iii. Code- Excl06: Obesity/ Weight Control 
Expenses related to the surgical treatment of obesity that does not fulfil all the below 
conditions: 
1) Surgery to be conducted is upon the advice of the Doctor 
2) The surgery/Procedure conducted should be supported by clinical protocols  
3) The member has to be 18 years of age or older and 
4) Body Mass Index (BMI); 
5) greater than or equal to 40 or 
6) greater than or equal to 35 in conjunction with any of the following severe co -
morbidities following failure of less invasive methods of weight loss:  
o Obesity-related cardiomyopathy 
o Coronary heart disease 
o Severe Sleep Apnea 
o Uncontrolled Type2 Diabetes 
 
iv. Code- Excl07:  Change of Gender treatments  
Expenses related to any treatment, including surgical management, to change 
characteristics of the body to those of the opposite sex. 
 
v. Code- Excl08: Cosmetic or plastic Surgery 
Expenses for cosmetic or plastic surgery or any treatment to change appearance 
unless for reconstruction following an Accident, Burn(s) or Cancer or as part of 
medically necessary treatment to remove a direct and immediate health risk to the 
insured. For this to be considered a medical necessity, it must be certified by the 
attending Medical Practitioner. 
vi. Code- Excl09: Hazardous or Adventure sports 
Expenses related to any treatment necessitated due to participation as a professional 
in hazardou s or adventure sports, including but not limited to, para -jumping, rock 
climbing, mountaineering, rafting, motor racing, horse racing or scuba diving, hand 
gliding, sky diving, deep-sea diving. 
 
vii. Code- Excl10: Breach of law 
Expenses for treatment directly arising from or consequent upon any Insured Person 
committing or attempting to commit a breach of law with criminal intent. 
 
viii. Code- Excl11: Excluded Providers 
Expenses incurred towards treatment in any hospital or by any Medical Practitioner or 
any other pr ovider specifically excluded by the Insurer and disclosed in its website / 
notified to the policyholders /proposers are not admissible.  However, in case of life 
threatening situations or following an accident, expenses up to the stage of stabilization 
are payable but not the complete claim. 
 
ix. Code- Excl12: Treatment for, Alcoholism, drug or substance abuse or any addictive 
condition and consequences thereof.  
 
x. Code- Excl13: Treatments   received   in   heath   hydros, nature   cure   clinics,   spas 
or similar establishments or private beds registered as a nursing home attached to such 
establishments or where admission is arranged wholly or partly for domestic reasons.  
 

--- PAGE 37 ---

ICICI Lombard Complete Health Insurance                   Annexure I                                                                                                    
UIN - ICIHLIP22096V062122 
 
 
                                                                                                                                              Page 37 of 52 
 
xi. Code- Excl14: Dietary supplements and substances that can be purchased     without 
prescription, including  but  not  limited  to  Vitamins,  minerals  and  organic  substances  
unless prescribed by a medical practitioner as part of hospitalisation claim or da y care 
procedure. 
 
xii. Code- Excl15: Refractive Error: Expenses related to the treatment for correction of eye 
sight due to refractive error less than 7.5 dioptres 
 
xiii. Code- Excl16: Unproven Treatments: Expenses  related  to  any  unproven  treatment,  
services  and  supplies  for  or  in connection with any treatment. Unproven treatments 
are treatments, procedures or supplies that lack significant medical documentation to 
support their effectiveness. 
 
xiv. Code- Excl17:  Sterility and Infertility:  Expenses related to, sterility and infertility. This 
includes: 
 
a) Any type of contraception, sterilization 
b) Assisted Reproduction services including artificial insemination and advanced 
reproductive technologies such as IVF, ZIFT, GIFT, ICSI 
c) Gestational Surrogacy 
d) Reversal of sterilization 
 
xv. Code- Excl18: Maternity: Medical treatment expenses traceable to childbirth (including 
complicated deliveries and caesarean sections incurred during hospitalisation) except 
ectopic pregnancy. Expenses towards miscarriage (unless due to an ac cident) and 
lawful medical termination of pregnancy during the policy period 
 
 
 
ii. Specific Exclusion (Exclusions other than those mentioned under e.i above) 
 
 
a. Any physical, medical or treatment or service that is specifically excluded in the Policy 
Schedule under Special Conditions 
 
b. Any expenses incurred on prosthesis, corrective devices, external durable medical 
equipment of any kind, like wheelchairs, crutches, instruments used in treatment of 
sleep apnoea syndrome or cost of cochlear implant(s) unless nece ssitated by an 
Accident or required intra-operatively. 
 
c. Expenses incurred on all dental treatment unless necessitated due to an Accident 
 
d. Personal comfort, cosmetics, convenience and hygiene related items and services  
 
e. Acupressure, acupuncture, magnetic and other therapies 
 
f. Circumcision unless necessary for treatment of an Illness or necessitated due to an 
Accident. Expenses for venereal disease or any sexually transmitted disease 
 

--- PAGE 38 ---

ICICI Lombard Complete Health Insurance                   Annexure I                                                                                                    
UIN - ICIHLIP22096V062122 
 
 
                                                                                                                                              Page 38 of 52 
 
g. Treatment relating to birth defects and external congenital Illnesses or defects or 
anomalies 
 
h. Any expenses arising out of Domiciliary Hospitalisation treatment 
 
i. Treatment taken outside the country 
 
j. Intentional self-injury (whether arising from an attempt to commit suicide or otherwise) 
 
k. Expenses related to donor screening, treatment, including surgery to remove organs 
from a donor in the case of transplant surgery 
 
l. Any injury or illness caused by or arising from or attributed to war, invasion, acts of 
foreign enemies, hostilities (whether war be declared or not), civil war, commotion, 
unrest, rebellion, revolution, military or usurped power or confiscation or nationalisation 
or requisition of or damage by or under the order of any government or public local 
authority 
 
m. Any Illness or Injury caused by or contributed to by nucle ar weapons/materials or 
contributed to by or arising from ionising radiation or contamination by radioactivity by 
any nuclear fuel or from any nuclear waste or from the combustion of nuclear fuel  
 
 
 
f. GENERAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS 
 
i. Standard General Terms and Clauses (General Terms and clauses whose 
wordings are specified by IRDAI) 
1. Disclosure of Information 
The Policy shall be void and all premium paid thereon shall be forfeited to the Company in 
the event of misrepresentation, mis -description or non-disclosure of any material fact  by the 
policyholder 
(Explanation: "Material facts" for the purpose of this policy shall mean all relevant information 
sought by the company in the proposal form and other connected documents to enable it to 
take informed decision in the context of underwriting the risk) 
 
2. Condition Precedent to Admission of Liability 
The terms and conditions of the policy must be fulfilled by the insured person for the 
Company to make any payment for claim(s) arising under the policy. 
 
3. Claim Settlement (provision for Penal lnterest) 
I. The Company shall settle or reject a claim, as the case may be, within 30 days from the 
date of receipt of last necessary document. 
II. ln the case of delay in the payment of a claim, the Company shall be liable to pay interest 
to the policyholder from the date of receipt of last necessary document to the date of 
payment of claim at a rate 2% above the bank rate. 
III. However, where the circumstances of a claim warrant an investigation in the opinion of 
the Company, it shall initiate and complete such investigation at the earliest, in any case 
not later than 30 days from the date of receipt of last necessary document- ln such cases, 

--- PAGE 39 ---

ICICI Lombard Complete Health Insurance                   Annexure I                                                                                                    
UIN - ICIHLIP22096V062122 
 
 
                                                                                                                                              Page 39 of 52 
 
the Company shall settle or reject the claim within 45 days from the date of receipt of last 
necessary document. 
IV. ln case of delay beyond stipulated 45 days, the Company shall be liable to pay interest to 
the policyholder at a rate 2% above the bank rate from the date of receipt of last 
necessary document to the date of payment of claim. 
 
(Explanation: "Bank rate" shall mean the rate fixed by the Reserve Bank of lndia (RBl) at 
the beginning of the financial year in which claim has fallen due)  
 
4. Complete Discharge 
Any payment to the policyholder, insured person  or his/ her nominees or his/ her legal 
representative or assignee or to the hospital as the case may be, for any benefit under the 
Policy shall be a valid  discharge towards payment of claim by the Company to the extent of 
that amount for the particular claim 
5. Multiple Policies 
i. In case of multiple policies taken by an insured person during a period from one or 
more insurers to indemnify treatment costs, the insured person shall have the right to 
require a settlement of his/her claim in terms of any of his/her policies. In all such 
cases the insurer chosen by the insured person shall be obliged to settle the claim as 
long as the claim is within the limits of and according to the terms of the chosen policy. 
ii. Insured Person  having multiple policies shall also have the right to prefer claims 
under this policy for the amounts disallowed under any other policy / policies, even if 
the sum insured is not exhausted. Then the Insurer shall independently settle the 
claim subject to the terms and conditions of this policy. 
iii. If the amount to be claimed exceeds the sum insured un der a single policy, the  
insured person shall have the right to choose insurers from whom he/she wants to 
claim the balance amount. 
iv. Where an insured person has policies from more than one insurer to cover the same 
risk on indemnity basis, the insured person shall only be indemnified the treatment 
costs in accordance with the terms and conditions of the chosen policy. 
 
6. Fraud 
If any claim made by the insured person, is in any respect fraudulent, or if any false statement, 
or declaration is made or used in support t hereof, or if any fraudulent means or devices are 
used by the insured person or anyone acting on his/her behalf to obtain any benefit under this 
policy, all benefits under this policy and the premium paid shall be forfeited. 
Any amount already paid against claims made under this policy but which are found fraudulent 
later shall be repaid by all recipient(s)/policyholder(s) who has made that particular claim, , 
who shall be jointly and severally liable for such repayment to the insurer 
For the purpose of this clause, the expression "fraud" means any of the following acts 
committed by the Insured Person or by his agent or the hospital/doctor/any other party acting 
on behalf of the insured person , with intent to deceive the insurer or to induce the insurer t o 
issue an insurance Policy:— 
a) the suggestion, as a fact of that which is not true and which the Insured Person does 
not believe to be true; 
b) the active concealment of a fact by the Insured Person having knowledge or belief of 
the fact; 
c) any other act fitted to deceive; and 
d) any such act or omission as the law specially declares to be fraudulent 


--- PAGE 40 ---

ICICI Lombard Complete Health Insurance                   Annexure I                                                                                                    
UIN - ICIHLIP22096V062122 
 
 
                                                                                                                                              Page 40 of 52 
 
The company shall not repudiate the claim and / or forfeit the policy benefits on the ground of 
fraud, if the insured person / beneficiary can prove that the misstatement was true to the best 
of his knowledge and there was no deliberate intention to suppress the fact or that such mis -
statement of or suppression of material fact are within the knowledge of the insurer.  
 
7. Cancellation 
a) The policyholder may cancel thi s Policy by giving 15days' written notice, and in such 
an event, the Company shall refund premium for the unexpired Policy Period as 
detailed below. 
 
Cancellation Period 
Refund % for 1  
year tenure 
policy 
Refund % for 2 
years tenure 
policy 
Refund % for 3 
years tenure 
policy 
From 16 days to 1 month 80.00 % 80.00% 80.00% 
From 1 month to 3 months 60.00% 70.00% 75.00% 
From 3 months to 6 months 40.00% 60.00% 67.50% 
From 6 months to 9 months 20.00% 50.00% 60.00% 
From 9 months to 12 months 0.00% 40.00% 52.50% 
From 12 months to 15 months NA 30.00% 47.50% 
From 15 months to 18 months NA 20.00% 40.00% 
From 18 months to 21 months NA 10.00% 32.50% 
From 21 months to 24 months NA 0.00% 25.00% 
From 24 months to 27 months NA NA 20.00% 
From 27 months to 30 months NA NA 12.50% 
From 30 months to 33 months NA NA 5.00% 
From 33 months to 36 months NA NA 0.00% 
Notwithstanding anything contained herein or otherwise, no refunds of premium shall 
be made in respect of Cancellation where, any claim has been admitted or has been 
lodged or any benefit has been availed by the Insured person under the Policy.  
b) The Company may cancel the Policy at any time on grounds of mis -representation, 
non-disclosure of material facts, fraud by the Insured Person, by giving 15 days' written 
notice. There would be no refund of premium on cancellation on grounds of mis -
representation, non-disclosure of material facts or fraud. 
 
8. Migration: 
The insured person will have the option to migrate the policy to other health insurance 
products/plans offered by the company by applying for migration of the policyatleast3O days 
before the policy renewal date as per IRDAI guidelines on Migration. lf such person is 
presently covered and has been continuously covered  without any lapses under any health 
insurance product/plan offered by the company, the insured person will get the accrued  
continuity benefits in waiting periods as per IRDAI guidelines on migration. 
 
For Detailed Guidelines on migration, kindly refer the link 
https://www.irdai.gov.in/ADMINCMS/cms/frmGuidelines_Layout.aspx?page=PageNo3987  
 
9. Portability  


--- PAGE 41 ---

ICICI Lombard Complete Health Insurance                   Annexure I                                                                                                    
UIN - ICIHLIP22096V062122 
 
 
                                                                                                                                              Page 41 of 52 
 
The insured person will have the option to port the policy to other insurers by applying to such 
insurer to port the entire policy along with all the members of the family, if any, at least 45 
days before, but not earlier than 60 days from the policy renewal date as per IRDAI guidelines 
related to portability. lf such person is presently covered and has been continuously covered 
without any lapses under any health insurance policy with an lndian General/Health insurer, 
the proposed insured person will get the accrued continuity benefits in waiting periods as per  
IRDAI guidelines on portability. 
 
For Detailed Guidelines on portability, kindly refer the link 
https://www.irdai.gov.in/ADMINCMS/cms/frmGuidelines_Layout.aspx?page=PageNo3987  
 
10. Renewal of Policy 
The policy shall ordinarily be renewable except on grounds of fraud, misrepresentation by the 
insured person 
 
I. The Company shall endeavor to give notice for renewal. However, the Company is  not under 
obligation to give any notice for renewal. 
II. Renewal shall not be denied on the ground that the insured person had made a claim or 
claims in the preceding policy years. 
III. Request for renewal along with requisite premium shall be received by the Company before 
the end of the policy period. 
IV. At the end of the policy period, the policy shall terminate and can be renewed within the 
Grace Period of 30 days to maintain continuity of benefits without break in policy. Coverage is 
not available during the grace period 
V. No loading shall apply on renewals based on individual claims experience  
 
11. Withdrawal of Policy 
 
i. ln the likelihood of this product being withdrawn in future, the Company will intimate the 
insured person about the same 90 days prior to expiry of the policy. 
ii. lnsured Person will have the option to migrate to similar health insurance product available 
with the Company at the time of renewal with all the accrued continuity benefits such as 
cumulative bonus, waiver of waiting period. as per IRDAI guidelines, provided the policy has 
been maintained without a break. 
 
 
 
12. Moratorium Period  
After completion of eight con tinuous years under this policy no look back would be applied. 
This period of eight years is called as moratorium period. The moratorium would be applicable 
for the sums insured of the first policy and subsequently completion of 8 continuous years 
would be applicable from date of enhancement of sum insured only on the enhanced limits. 
After the expiry of Moratorium Period no health insurance claim shall be contestable except 
for proven fraud and permanent exclusions specified in the policy contract. The policies would 
however be subject to all limits, sub limits, co-payments, deductibles as per the policy contract 
 
13. Premium Payment in installments  
lf the insured person has opted for Payment of Premium on an instalment basis i.e. Half Yearly, 
Quarterly or Monthly, as mentioned in the policy Schedule/Certificate of lnsurance, the following 
Conditions shall apply (notwithstanding any terms contrary elsewhere in the policy)  
 
i. Grace Period of 15  days would be given to pay the instalment premium due for the policy  

--- PAGE 42 ---

ICICI Lombard Complete Health Insurance                   Annexure I                                                                                                    
UIN - ICIHLIP22096V062122 
 
 
                                                                                                                                              Page 42 of 52 
 
ii. During such grace period, coverage will not be available from the due date of instalment 
premium till the date of receipt of premium by Company. 
iii. The insured person will get the accrued continuity benefit in respect of the "Waiting 
Periods", "Specific Waiting Periods" in the event of payment of premium within the 
stipulated grace Period. 
iv. No interest will be charged lf the instalment premium is not paid on due date. 
v. ln case of instalment premium due not received within the grace period, the policy will get 
cancelled. 
vi. ln the event of a claim, all subsequent premium instalments shall immediately become 
due and payable. 
vii. The company has the right to recover and deduct all the pending instalments from the 
claim amount due under the policy. 
 
14. Possibility of Revision of Terms of the Policy Including the Premium Rates  
The Company, with prior approval of IRDAI, may revise or modify the terms of the policy 
including the premium rates. The insured person shall be notified three months before the 
changes are effected. 
 
15. Free look period 
The Free Look Period shall be applicable on new individual health insurance policies  and not 
on renewals or at the time of porting/migrating the policy 
The insured person shall be allowed free look period of fifteen days from date of receipt of the 
Policy documents to review the terms and conditions of the Policy, and to return the same if 
not acceptable. 
If the insured has not made any claim during the Free Look Period, the insured shall be 
entitled to  
a) a refund of the premium paid less any expenses incurred by the company on medical 
examination of the insured person and the stamp duty charges; or  
b) where the risk has already commenced and the option of return of the Policy is 
exercised by the insured person, a deduction towards the proportionate risk premium 
for period of cover or 
c) where only a part of the insurance coverage has commenced, such proportionate 
premium commensurate with the insurance coverage during such period; 
 
 
 
16. Redressal of Grievances 
ln case of any grievance the insured person may contact the company through 
Website :  www.icicilombard.com 
Toll Free : 1800 2666 
E-Mail: customersupport@icicilombard.com 
Courier:  ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company Ltd. 
ICICI Lombard House,  
414, Veer Savarkar Marg,  
Near Siddhi Vinayak Temple,  
Prabhadevi, Mumbai- 400025 
 
lnsured person may also approach the grievance cell at any of the company's  
branches with the details of grievance 
 


--- PAGE 43 ---

ICICI Lombard Complete Health Insurance                   Annexure I                                                                                                    
UIN - ICIHLIP22096V062122 
 
 
                                                                                                                                              Page 43 of 52 
 
lf lnsured person is not satisfied with the redressal of grievance through one of the above 
methods, insured person may contact the grievance officer at Manager- Service Quality,  
Corporate Manager- Service Quality,  National Manager- Operations & finally  Director-services 
and Business development at the following address: 
ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company Limited, 
ICICI Lombard House,  
414, Veer Savarkar Marg,  
Near Siddhi Vinayak Temple, 
Prabhadevi, Mumbai 400025 
 
For updated details of grievance officer, kindly refer the link.. 
.https://www.icicilombard.com/grievance-redressal... 
 
lf lnsured person is not satisfied with the redressal of grievance through above methods, the 
insured person may also approach the office of lnsurance Ombudsman of the respective 
area/region for redressal of grievance as per lnsurance Ombudsman Rules 2017.  Grievance 
may also be lodged at IRDAI lntegrated Grievance Management System 
- https:/igms. irda.qov. in/ 
 
The Details of Insurance Ombudsman are Available Below: 
 
 
Areas of Jurisdiction Office of the Insurance Ombudsman 
Gujarat , UT of Dadra and Nagar Haveli, 
Daman and Diu  
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 
JeevanPrakash Building, 6th floor, 
TilakMarg, Relief Road, 
Ahmedabad – 380 001. 
Tel.: 079 - 25501201/02/05/06 
Email: bimalokpal.ahmedabad@ecoi.co.in 
Karnataka Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 
JeevanSoudhaBuilding,PID No. 57-27-N-19, Ground 
Floor, 19/19, 24th Main Road,JP Nagar, Ist Phase, 
Bengaluru – 560 078. 
Tel.: 080 - 26652048 / 26652049 
Email: bimalokpal.bengaluru@ecoi.co.in 
Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh  Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 
JanakVihar Complex, 2nd Floor, 
6, Malviya Nagar, Opp. Airtel Office, 
Near New Market, 
Bhopal – 462 003. 
Tel.: 0755 - 2769201 / 2769202 
Fax: 0755 - 2769203 
Email: bimalokpal.bhopal@ecoi.co.in 
Odisha Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 
62, Forest park, 
Bhubneshwar – 751 009. 
Tel.: 0674 - 2596461 /2596455 
Fax: 0674 - 2596429 
Email: bimalokpal.bhubaneswar@ecoi.co.in 
Punjab , Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, 
Jammu and Kashmir, UT of Chandigarh  
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 
S.C.O. No. 101, 102 & 103, 2nd Floor, 
Batra Building, Sector 17 – D, 
Chandigarh – 160 017. 
Tel.: 0172 - 2706196 / 2706468 
Fax: 0172 - 2708274 
Email: bimalokpal.chandigarh@ecoi.co.in 

--- PAGE 44 ---

ICICI Lombard Complete Health Insurance                   Annexure I                                                                                                    
UIN - ICIHLIP22096V062122 
 
 
                                                                                                                                              Page 44 of 52 
 
Tamil Nadu,   UT–Pondicherry Town and 
Karaikal (which are part of UT of 
Pondicherry)  
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 
Fatima Akhtar Court, 4th Floor, 453, 
Anna Salai, Teynampet, 
CHENNAI – 600 018. 
Tel.: 044 - 24333668 / 24335284 
Fax: 044 - 24333664 
Email: bimalokpal.chennai@ecoi.co.in 
Delhi  Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 
2/2 A, Universal Insurance Building, 
Asaf Ali Road, 
New Delhi – 110 002. 
Tel.: 011 - 23232481/23213504 
Email: bimalokpal.delhi@ecoi.co.in 
Assam , Meghalaya, Manipur, Mizoram, 
Arunachal Pradesh, Nagaland and 
Tripura  
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 
JeevanNivesh, 5th Floor, 
Nr. Panbazar over bridge, S.S. Road, 
Guwahati – 781001(ASSAM). 
Tel.: 0361 - 2632204 / 2602205 
Email: bimalokpal.guwahati@ecoi.co.in 
Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and UT of 
Yanam – a part of the UT of Pondicherry  
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 
6-2-46, 1st floor, "Moin Court", 
Lane Opp. Saleem Function Palace, 
A. C. Guards, Lakdi-Ka-Pool, 
Hyderabad - 500 004. 
Tel.: 040 - 67504123 / 23312122 
Fax: 040 - 23376599 
Email: bimalokpal.hyderabad@ecoi.co.in 
Rajasthan Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 
JeevanNidhi – II Bldg., Gr. Floor, 
Bhawani Singh Marg, 
Jaipur - 302 005. 
Tel.: 0141 - 2740363 
Email: Bimalokpal.jaipur@ecoi.co.in 
Kerala , UT of  (a) Lakshadweep, (b) 
Mahe – a part of UT of Pondicherry  
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 
2nd Floor, Pulinat Bldg., 
Opp. Cochin Shipyard, M. G. Road, 
Ernakulam-682015. 
Tel.: 0484 - 2358759/2359338 
Fax: 0484-2359336 
Email: bimalokpal.ernakulam@ecoi.co.in 
West Bengal, UT of Andaman and 
Nicobar Islands, Sikkim  
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 
Hindustan Bldg. Annexe, 4th Floor, 
4, C.R. Avenue, 
KOLKATA - 700 072. 
Tel.: 033 - 22124339 / 22124340 
Fax : 033 - 22124341 
Email: bimalokpal.kolkata@ecoi.co.in 
Districts of Uttar Pradesh :  
Laitpur, Jhansi, Mahoba, Hamirpur, 
Banda, Chitrakoot, Allahabad, Mirzapur, 
Sonbhabdra, Fatehpur, Pratapgarh, 
Jaunpur,Varanasi, Gazipur, Jalaun, 
Kanpur, Lucknow, Unnao, Sitapur, 
Lakhimpur, Bahraich, Barabanki, 
Raebareli, Sravasti, Gonda, Faizabad, 
Amethi, K aushambi, Balrampur, Basti, 
Ambedkarnagar, Sultanpur, 
Maharajgang, Santkabirnagar, 
Azamgarh, Kushinagar, Gorkhpur, 
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 
6th Floor, JeevanBhawan, Phase-II, 
Nawal Kishore Road, Hazratganj, 
Lucknow - 226 001. 
Tel.: 0522 - 2231330 / 2231331 
Fax: 0522 - 2231310 
Email: bimalokpal.lucknow@ecoi.co.in 

--- PAGE 45 ---

ICICI Lombard Complete Health Insurance                   Annexure I                                                                                                    
UIN - ICIHLIP22096V062122 
 
 
                                                                                                                                              Page 45 of 52 
 
Deoria, Mau, Ghazipur, Chandauli, 
Ballia, Sidharathnagar. 
Goa,  
Mumbai Metropolitan Region  
excluding Navi Mumbai & Thane 
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 
3rd Floor, JeevanSevaAnnexe, 
S. V. Road, Santacruz (W), 
Mumbai - 400 054. 
Tel.: 022 - 26106552 / 26106960 
Fax: 022 - 26106052 
Email: bimalokpal.mumbai@ecoi.co.in 
State of Uttaranch al and the following 
Districts of Uttar Pradesh:  
Agra, Aligarh, Bagpat, Bareilly, Bijnor, 
Budaun, Bulandshehar, Etah, Kanooj, 
Mainpuri, Mathura, Meerut, Moradabad, 
Muzaffarnagar, Oraiyya, Pilibhit, Etawah, 
Farrukhabad, Firozbad, 
Gautambodhanagar, Ghaziabad, Hardoi, 
Shahjahanpur, Hapur, Shamli, Rampur, 
Kashganj, Sambhal, Amroha, Hathras, 
Kanshiramnagar, Saharanpur. 
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 
BhagwanSahai Palace 
4th Floor, Main Road, 
Naya Bans, Sector 15, 
Distt: GautamBuddh Nagar, 
U.P-201301. 
Tel.: 0120-2514250 / 2514252 / 2514253 
Email: bimalokpal.noida@ecoi.co.in 
Bihar, 
Jharkhand. 
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 
1st Floor,Kalpana Arcade Building,, 
Bazar Samiti Road, 
Bahadurpur, 
Patna 800 006. 
Tel.: 0612-2680952 
Email: bimalokpal.patna@ecoi.co.in 
Maharashtra, 
Area of Navi Mumbai and Thane  
excluding Mumbai Metropolitan Region 
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 
JeevanDarshan Bldg., 3rd Floor, 
C.T.S. No.s. 195 to 198, 
N.C. Kelkar Road, Narayan Peth, 
Pune – 411 030. 
Tel.: 020-41312555 
Email: bimalokpal.pune@ecoi.co.in 
 
 
The updated details of Insurance Ombudsman are also available on IRDA websit e: www.irda.gov.in 
on the website of General Insurance Council: www.generalinsurancecouncil.org.in, website of the 
company www.icicilombard.com  or from any of the offices of the Company 
 
17. Nomination: 
 
The policyholder is required at the inception of the policy to make a nomination for the  
purpose of payment of claims under the policy in the event of death of the policyholder. Any 
change of nomination shall be communicated to the company in writing and such change 
shall be effective only when an endorsement on the policy is made. ln the event of death of 
the policyholder, the Company will pay the nominee {as named in the Policy Schedule/Policy 
Certificate/Endorsement (if any)} and in case there is no subsisting nominee, to the legal heirs 
or legal representatives of the policyholder whose discharge shall be treated as full and final 
discharge of its liability under the policy. 
 
 
ii. Specific Terms and Clauses (Terms and clauses other than those mentioned above 
under f.(i) above) 
 

--- PAGE 46 ---

ICICI Lombard Complete Health Insurance                   Annexure I                                                                                                    
UIN - ICIHLIP22096V062122 
 
 
                                                                                                                                              Page 46 of 52 
 
1. Material Change 
a. The Insured shall notify the Company in writing of any material change in the risk in 
relation to the declaration made in the proposal form or medical examination report 
at each Renewal and the Company may, adjust the scope of cover and/or premium, 
if necessary, accordingly 
2. Records to be Maintained 
a. The Insured Person shall keep an accurate record containing all relevant medical 
records and shall allow the Company or its representatives to inspect such records. 
The Proposer or Insured Person shall furnish such information as the Company may 
require for settlement of any claim under the Policy, within reasonable time limit and 
within the time limit specified in the Policy. 
3. Notice & Communication 
Any notice, direction, instruction or any other communication related to the Policy should be 
made in writing. 
Such communication shall be sent to the address of the Company or through any other 
electronic modes specified in the Policy Schedule. 
The Company shall communicate to the Insured at the address or through any other electronic 
mode mentioned in the schedule. 
4. Territorial Limit 
a. All medical treatment for the purpose of this insurance will have to be taken in India 
only unless worldwide cover has been opted for. 
5. Automatic change in Coverage under the policy 
a. The coverage for the Insured Person(s) shall automatically terminate: 
In the case of his/ her (Insured Person) demise. 
i. However the cover shall continue for the remaining Insured Persons till the 
end of Policy Period. The other insured persons may also apply to renew the 
policy. In case, the other insured person is minor, the policy shall be renewed 
only through any one of his/her natural guardian or guardian appointed by 
court. All relevant particulars in respect of such person (including his/her 
relationship with the insured person) must be submitted to the company along 
with the application. Provided no claim has been made, and termination takes 
place on account of death of the insured person, pro-rata refund of premium 
of the deceased insured person for the balance period of the policy will be 
effective. 
Upon exhaustion of sum insured and additional sum insured (if any) , for the policy year. 
However, the policy is subject to renewal on the due date as per the applicable terms and 
conditions. 
6. Territorial Jurisdiction 
a. All disputes or differences under or in relation to the interpretation of the terms, 
conditions, validity, construct, limitations and/or exclusions contained in the Policy 
shall be determined by the Indian court and according to Indian law.  
7. Arbitration 
If any dispute or difference shall arise as to the quantum to be paid by the Policy, (liability 
being otherwise admitted) such difference shall independently of all other questions, be 
referred to the decision of a sole arbitrator to be appointed in writing by the parties here to or 
if they cannot agree upon a single arbitrator within thirty days of any party invoking arbitration, 


--- PAGE 47 ---

ICICI Lombard Complete Health Insurance                   Annexure I                                                                                                    
UIN - ICIHLIP22096V062122 
 
 
                                                                                                                                              Page 47 of 52 
 
the same shall be referred to a panel of three arbitrators, comprising two arbitrators, one to 
be appointed by each of the parties  to the dispute/difference and the third arbitrator to be 
appointed by such two arbitrators and arbitration shall be conducted under and in accordance 
with the provisions of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act 1996, as amended by Arbitration 
and Conciliation (Amendment) Act, 2015 (No. 3 of 2016). 
It is clearly agreed and understood that no difference or dispute shall be preferable to 
arbitration as herein before provided, if the Company has disputed or not accepted liability 
under or in respect of the policy, iii. It is hereby expressly stipulated and declared that it shall 
be a condition precedent to any right of action or suit upon the policy that award by such 
arbitrator/arbitrators of the amount of expenses shall be first obtained.  
 
8. Policy alignment  
a. Policy Alignment option will be available in cases wherein insured(s) with two separate 
health indemnity policies with Us, having different policy end dates but want to align 
the policy start dates. We can align the policies by extending the coverage of one policy 
till the end date of the other policy. 
b. Such policies will be charged with premium on pro rata basis though the sum insured 
under the policy shall remain constant.  
 
9. Endorsements (Changes in Policy) 
This policy constitutes the complete contract of insurance. This Policy cannot be modified by 
anyone (including an insurance agent or broker) except the company. Any change made by 
the company shall be evidenced by a written endorsement signed and stamped.  
The proposer may be changed only at the time of renewal. The new proposer must be the 
legal heir/immediate family member. Such change would be subject to acceptance by the 
company and payment of premium (if any). The renewed Policy shall be treated as having 
been renewed without break. 
The proposer may be changed during the Policy Period only in case of his/her demise or 
him/her moving out of India. 
Mid- term endorsement of addition of member in the policy shall only be allowed for newly 
wedded spouse by marriage and new born baby with relevant documentation 
10. Change of Sum Insured 
Sum insured can be changed (increased/ decreased) only at the time of renewal or at any 
time, subject to underwriting by the Company. For any increase in SI, the waiting period shall 
start afresh only for the enhanced portion of the sum insured 
11.  Non Payables 
Below are the non -payable items applicable in the policy. The list may be updated as per the 
direction of Authority, for updated list please visit Our website: www.iciciclombard.com 
 
List of Non Payable Items as per IRDAI 
Sr. No Items 
1 BABY FOOD  
2 BABY UTILITIES CHARGES  
3 BEAUTY SERVICES  
4 BELTS/ BRACES  


--- PAGE 48 ---

ICICI Lombard Complete Health Insurance                   Annexure I                                                                                                    
UIN - ICIHLIP22096V062122 
 
 
                                                                                                                                              Page 48 of 52 
 
5 BUDS 
6 COLD PACK/HOT PACK  
7 CARRY BAGS  
8 EMAIL / INTERNET CHARGES  
9 FOOD CHARGES (OTHER THAN PATIENT's DIET PROVIDED BY HOSPITAL)  
10 LEGGINGS 
11 LAUNDRY CHARGES 
12 MINERAL WATER  
13 SANITARY PAD  
14 TELEPHONE CHARGES  
15 GUEST SERVICES  
16 CREPE BANDAGE  
17 DIAPER OF ANY TYPE  
18 EYELET COLLAR  
19 SLINGS 
20 BLOOD GROUPING AND CROSS MATCHING OF DONORS SAMPLES  
21 SERVICE CHARGES WHERE NURSING CHARGE ALSO  CHARGED 
22 Television Charges  
23 SURCHARGES  
24 ATTENDANT CHARGES  
25 EXTRA DIET OF PATIENT (OTHER THAN THAT WHICH FORMS PART OF BED  
26 BIRTH CERTIFICATE  
27 CERTIFICATE CHARGES  
28 COURIER CHARGES  
29 CONVEYANCE CHARGES  
30 MEDICAL CERTIFICATE  
31 MEDICAL RECORDS  
32 PHOTOCOPIES CHARGES  
33 MORTUARY CHARGES  
34 WALKING AIDS CHARGES  
35 OXYGEN CYLINDER (FOR USAGE OUTSIDE THE HOSPITAL)  
36 SPACER 
37 SPIROMETRE  
38 NEBULIZER KIT  
39 STEAM INHALER  
40 ARMSLING 
41 THERMOMETER  
42 CERVICAL COLLAR  
43 SPLINT 
44 DIABETIC FOOT WEAR  
45 KNEE BRACES (LONG/ SHORT/ HINGED)  
46 KNEE IMMOBILIZER/SHOULDER IMMOBILIZER  
47 LUMBO SACRAL BELT  
48 NIMBUS BED OR WATER OR AIR BED CHARGES  

--- PAGE 49 ---

ICICI Lombard Complete Health Insurance                   Annexure I                                                                                                    
UIN - ICIHLIP22096V062122 
 
 
                                                                                                                                              Page 49 of 52 
 
49 AMBULANCE COLLAR 
50 AMBULANCE EQUIPMENT 
51 ABDOMINAL BINDER 
52 PRIVATE NURSES CHARGES- SPECIAL NURSING CHARGES 
53 SUGAR FREE Tablets 
54 CREAMS POWDERS LOTIONS (Toiletries are not payable, only prescribed medical 
pharmaceuticals payable) 
55 ECG ELECTRODES  
56 GLOVES 
57 NEBULISATION KIT  
58 RECOVERY KIT, ETC]ANY KIT WITH NO  DETAILS MENTIONED [DELIVERY KIT, 
ORTHOKIT,  
59 KIDNEY TRAY  
60 MASK 
61 OUNCE GLASS  
62 OXYGEN MASK  
63 PELVIC TRACTION BELT  
64 PAN CAN 
65 TROLLY COVER  
66 UROMETER, URINE JUG  
67 AMBULANCE  
68 VASOFIX SAFETY  
 
 
 
g. Other Terms and Conditions 
 
I. CLAIM ADMINISTRATION 
The fulfillment of the terms and conditions of this Policy (including payment of premium by the due 
dates mentioned in the Policy Schedule) insofar as they relate to anything to be done or complied 
with by each of You shall be conditions pre cedent to admission of Our liability. You are requested to 
go through our list of de-listed/excluded providers which is available on our website 
Further, upon the discovery or happening of any Illness or Injury that may give rise to a Claim under 
this Policy, then as a condition precedent to the admission of Our liability, You shall undertake the 
following 
1 CLAIMS PROCEDURE 
(A) For Cashless Settlement 
Cashless treatment is only available at a Network Provider (List of Network Providers 
is available at our websit e).  In order to avail of cashless treatment, the following 
procedure must be followed by You: 
 
Pre-authorization 
Prior to taking treatment and/or incurring Medical Expenses at a Network Provider, You 
must contact Us or Our in house claim processing team accompanied with full 
particulars namely, Policy Number, Your name, Your relationship with Proposer, nature 
of Illness or Injury, name and address of the Medical Practitioner/ Hospital and  any 
other information that may be relevant to the Illness/ Injury/ Hospitalisation. You must 

--- PAGE 50 ---

ICICI Lombard Complete Health Insurance                   Annexure I                                                                                                    
UIN - ICIHLIP22096V062122 
 
 
                                                                                                                                              Page 50 of 52 
 
request pre-authorisation at least 48 hours before a planned Hospitalisation and in case 
of an emergency situation, within 24 hours of Hospitalisation.  To avail of C ashless 
Hospitalisation facility, you are required to produce the health card, as provided to You 
with this Policy, subject to the terms and conditions for the usage of the said health 
card Or You can seek pre authorization by providing Your Policy number and ID proof 
to the hospital who can co -ordinate with Our claim t eam to provide cashless facility. 
We will consider Your request after having obtained accurate and complete information 
for the Illness or Injury for which cashless Hospitalisation facility is sought by You  and 
We will confirm Your request in writing.  
 
(B) For Reimbursement Settlement 
i. You shall give notice to Us or Our In house claim processing team by calling 
the toll free number 1800 2666 or emailing us at 
customersupport@icicilombard.com as specified in the Policy provided to You 
and also in writing at Our address with particulars as below: 
 Policy number; 
 Your Name; 
 Your relationship with the Proposer; 
 Nature of Illness or Injury; 
 Name and address of the attending Medical Practitioner and the    
Hospital; 
 Any other information that may be relevant to the Illness/ Injury/ 
Hospitalisation 
The above information needs to be provided to Us or Our In house claim 
processing team immediately and in any event within 10 days of 
Hospitalisation, failing which We will have the right to treat the Claim as 
inadmissible, as We may deem fit at Our sole discretion. 
ii. You must immediately consult a Medical Practitioner and follow the advice and 
treatment that he recommends. 
iii. You or someone claiming on Your behalf must promptly and in any event within 
30 days of Your discharge from a Hospital (for post-hospitalisation expenses, 
within 30 days from the  completion of post-hospitalisation period) deliver to Us 
the documentation (written details of the quantum of any Claim along  with all 
original supporting documentation) as more particularly listed in CLAIM 
DOCUMENTS section. In case there is a delay beyond 30 days in submission 
of  claim documents, we may condone the delay provided the insured person 
submits a valid reason justifying the delay to us in writing. 
However, in both the above cases i.e. (A) & (B), You must take reasonable steps or 
measure to minimise the quantum of any Claim that may be covered under the Policy 
If so requested by Us, You will have to undergo a me dical examination from Our 
nominated Medical Practitioner, as and when We or Our In house claim processing 
team considers reasonable and necessary. The cost of such examination will be 
borne by Us.   
 
 
Claim falling in two Policy Periods 
If the claim event falls within two Policy periods, the claims shall be paid taking into 
consideration the available Sum Insured in the two Policy Periods, including the Deductibles 
for each Policy Period. Such eligible claim amount to be payable to the Insured shall be reduced 
to the extent of premium to be received for the Renewal/due date of premium of health 
insurance Policy, if not received earlier. 

--- PAGE 51 ---

ICICI Lombard Complete Health Insurance                   Annexure I                                                                                                    
UIN - ICIHLIP22096V062122 
 
 
                                                                                                                                              Page 51 of 52 
 
2. CLAIM DOCUMENTS 
You shall be required to furnish the following documents for or in support of a Claim : 
 
a) Duly completed Claim form signed by You and the Medical Practitioner. The claim 
form can be downloaded from Our website www.icicilombard.com 
b) Original bills, receipts and discharge certificate/card from the Hospital/Medical 
Practitioner 
c) Original bills from chemists supported by proper prescription. 
d) Original investigation test reports and payment receipts. 
e) Indoor case papers 
f) Medical Practitioner’s referral letter advising Hospitalisation in non-Accident cases. 
g) Any other document as required by Us or Our In house claim processing team to 
investigate the Claim or Our obligation to make payment for it 
3. CLAIM SERVICE GUARANTEE 
We provide You Claim Service Guarantee as follows 
 
a) For Reimbursement Claims 
We shall make the payment of admissible claim (as per terms & conditions of Policy) OR 
communicate non admissibility of claim within 14 days after You submit complete set of 
documents & information in respect of the claim. In case We fail to make the payment of 
admissible claim or to communicate non admissibility of claim within this time period, We 
shall pay 2% interest over and above the rate defined as per IRDA (Protection of 
Policyholder’s Interest) Regulations 2017 .  
b) For Cashless Claims 
If You notify pre authorization request for cashless facility through any of Our empanelled 
network hospitals along with complete set of documents & information, We will respond 
within 4 hours of the actual receipt of such pre authorization request with: 
i. Approval, or 
ii. Rejection, or 
iii. Query seeking further information 
In case the request is for enhancement, i.e. Request for increase in the amount already 
authorized, We will respond to it within 3 hours. 
In case of delay in response by Us beyond the time period as stated above for cashless claims, 
We shall be liable to pay ₹1,000 to You. Our maximum liability in respect of a single 
hospitalisation shall, at no time exceed ₹1,000. 
We will not be liable to make any payments under this Claim Service Guarantee in case of any 
force majeure, natural event or manmade disturbance which impedes Our ability to make a 
decision or to communicate such decision to You. 
This service guarantee shall not be applicable for any cases delayed on account of reasonable 
apprehension of fraud or f raudulent claims or cases referred to/by any adjudicative forum for 
necessary disposal.  
You may lodge claim separately for the hospitalisation claim, Pre-Post hospitalisation, optional 
covers, OPD etc.   In such scenarios, if delay happens beyond the time period as specified 
above, the interest amount calculated will be on the net sanctioned amount of respective 
transaction and not the total amount paid for the entire claim.  

--- PAGE 52 ---

ICICI Lombard Complete Health Insurance                   Annexure I                                                                                                    
UIN - ICIHLIP22096V062122 
 
 
                                                                                                                                              Page 52 of 52 
 
Any amounts paid towards interest under Claim Service Guarantee will not affect th e Sum 
Insured as specified in the Schedule.  
If You are not eligible for ‘Claim Service Guarantee’ for the reasons stated above, We will inform 
the same to You, within 14 days in case of i) and within 4 hours in case of ii) above.