--- PAGE 1 ---

 
Navi Health Seasonal Byte | UIN: NAVHLIP22059V032122 
                                                                   
Navi General Insurance Limited 
Registered Office: Salarpuria Business Centre, 4th Floor, 93, 5th A Block, Koramangala Industrial Layout, Bengaluru, Karnataka – 560095 
Toll-free number: 1800 123 0004 | Website: www.naviinsurance.com | Email: insurance.help@navi.com 
CIN: U66000KA2016PLC148551 | IRDAI Registration Number: 155 
Page 1 of 32 
NAVI HEALTH SEASONAL BYTE 
 
POLICY WORDINGS 
 
This is Your Navi Health Seasonal Byte Policy , which has been issued by Us relying on the Information 
disclosed by You in Your Proposal for this Policy or its preceding Policy/Policies of which this is a Renewal. 
The insurance cover is provided under this Policy to the Insured Person/s up to the Sum Insured and shall be 
subject to (a) the terms, conditions and exclusions to this Policy (b) the receipt of premium, and (c) 
Disclosure to Information Norm for Yourself and on behalf of each of the Insured Persons. 
 
1. INTERPRETATIONS & DEFINITIONS 
 
For easy understa nding of this Policy, the following words or phrases shall have the meanings 
attributed to them wherever they appear in this Policy. For this purpose and where the context permits 
the singular shall include the plural, the male gender shall include the fem ale, and references to any 
statutory enactment shall include subsequent changes to the same. 
 
 Term Definition 
1.  Age or Aged means completed Age in years as at the Commencement Date. 
2.  Any one Illness means continuous Period of Illness and includes relapse within 45 days 
from the date of last consultation with the Hospital/Nursing Home 
where treatment was taken. 
3.  Authority means the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India 
established under the provisions of section 3 of the Insurance  
Regulatory and development Authority Act, 1999 (41 of 1999).  
4.  AYUSH means the forms of treatments other than “Allopathy” or “modern 
medicine” and includes Ayurveda, Yoga and Naturopathy, Unani, 
Siddha and Homeopathy in the Indian context. 
5.  AYUSH Hospital means a healthcare facility wherein medical / surgical/ para – surgical 
treatment procedures and interventions are carried out by AYUSH 
Medical Practitioner(s) comprising of any of the following – 
a. Central or State Government AYUSH Hospital; or 
b. Teaching hospital attached to AYUSH College recognized by the 
Central Government / Central Council of Indian Medicine / Central 
Council for Homeopathy; or 
c. AYUSH hospital, standalone or co – located with in -patient 
healthcare facility of any recognised system of medicine, 
registered with the local authorities, wherever applicable, and is 
under the supervision of a qualified registered AYUSH Medical 
Practitioner and must comply with all the following criterion : 
i. Having atleast 5 in-patient beds; 
ii. Having qualified AYUSH Medical Practitioner in charge round 
the clock; 
iii. Having dedicated AYUSH therapy sections as required and / 
or has equipped operation theatre where surgical procedures 
are to be carried out; 
iv. Maintaining daily records of the patients an d making them 

--- PAGE 2 ---

 
Navi Health Seasonal Byte | UIN: NAVHLIP22059V032122 
                                                                   
Navi General Insurance Limited 
Registered Office: Salarpuria Business Centre, 4th Floor, 93, 5th A Block, Koramangala Industrial Layout, Bengaluru, Karnataka – 560095 
Toll-free number: 1800 123 0004 | Website: www.naviinsurance.com | Email: insurance.help@navi.com 
CIN: U66000KA2016PLC148551 | IRDAI Registration Number: 155 
Page 2 of 32 
accessible to the insurance company’s authorised 
representative. 
6.  Cashless Facility means a facility extended by the Insurer to the insured where the 
payments, of the costs of treatment undergone by the insured in 
accordance with the Policy terms and conditions, are directly made to 
the network provider  by the Insurer to the extent pre -authorization is 
approved. 
7.  Cancellation (of 
policy) 
means the terms on which the policy contract can be terminated either 
by the insurer or the insured by giving sufficient notice to other which is 
not lower than a period of fifteen days. The terms of cancellation may 
differ from insurer to insurer. 
8.  Complaint or 
Grievance 
means written expression (includes communication in the form of 
electronic mail or other electronic scripts), of dissatisfaction by a 
Complainant with insurer, distribution channels, intermediaries, 
insurance intermediaries or other regulated entities about an action or 
lack of action about the standard of service or deficiency of service of 
such insurer, distribution channels, intermediaries, insurance 
intermediaries or other regulated entities. 
9.  Complainant means a Policyholder or prospect or any beneficiary of an insurance 
Policy who has filed a Complaint or Grievance  against an Insurer or a 
distribution channel. 
10.  Commencement Date means the start date of this Policy as specified in the Policy Schedule.  
11.  Comorbid condition means an illness or injury happening at the same time but not related 
to Specified Illness. 
12.  Condition precedent means a Policy term or condition upon which the insurer’s liability under 
the Policy is conditional upon. 
13.  Congenital Anomaly means a condition which is present since birth, and which is abnormal 
with reference to form, structure or position. 
 
a. Internal Congenital Anomaly  - congenital anomaly which is not 
in the visible and accessible parts of the body. 
 
b. External Congenita l Anomaly  - congenital anomaly which is in 
the visible and accessible parts of the body. 
14.  Diagnosis means conclusion drawn by a registered Medical Practitioner , 
supported by acceptable clinical, radiological, histological, histo -
pathological, and laboratory evidence wherever applicable. 
15.  Date of Diagnosis means the day when the diagnosis of Specified Illness  is established 
by a Specialist / Medical Practitioner  through the use of the clinical 
and/or laboratory findings as supported by the Insured medical records.  
16.  Emergency means severe specified Illness  resulting in symptoms which occur 
suddenly and unexpectedly and requires immediate care by a Medical 
Practitioner to prevent death or serious long -term impairment of the 
Insured Person’s health. 

--- PAGE 3 ---

 
Navi Health Seasonal Byte | UIN: NAVHLIP22059V032122 
                                                                   
Navi General Insurance Limited 
Registered Office: Salarpuria Business Centre, 4th Floor, 93, 5th A Block, Koramangala Industrial Layout, Bengaluru, Karnataka – 560095 
Toll-free number: 1800 123 0004 | Website: www.naviinsurance.com | Email: insurance.help@navi.com 
CIN: U66000KA2016PLC148551 | IRDAI Registration Number: 155 
Page 3 of 32 
17.  Family means the persons named in the Policy Schedule who are the Insured 
Person’s: 
i. Spouse – The Insured’s legally married spouse as long as she 
continues to be married to the Primary Insured.  
ii. Children – The Insured’s children as long as they are financially 
dependent on him/her with no source of independent inc ome 
and have not established their own independent households. 
iii. Parents – The Insured’s natural parents or parents that have 
legally adopted him 
iv. Parents in Law – The Insured’s Parents in Law. 
18.  Family Floater means a Policy described as such in the Policy Schedule  where You 
and Your Family named in the Policy Schedule are covered under this 
Policy as at the Commencement Date . The Sum Insured  for a Family 
Floater is the amount shown in the Policy Schedule which represents 
Our maximum liability for any and all claims made by You and/or all of 
Your Family during each Policy Year. 
19.  Grace Period means the specified period of time immediately following the premium 
due date during which a payment can be made to renew or continue a 
Policy in force without loss of continuity benefits such as waiting 
periods and coverage of Pre-existing diseases . Coverage is not 
available for the period for which no premium is received. 
20.  Hospital  
 
means any institution established for In -Patient Care and Day Care 
Treatment of Illness and/or injuries and which has been registered as a 
Hospital with the local authorities under Clinical Establishment 
(Registration and Regulation) Act,2010 o r under enactments specified 
under the Schedule of Section 56 (1) of the said Act Or complies with all 
minimum criteria as under:  
 
i. has qualified nursing staff under its employment round the 
clock; 
ii. has at least 10 in -patient beds, in towns having a populat ion of 
less than 10,00,000 and at least 15 inpatient beds in all other 
places; 
iii. has qualified Medical Practitioner (s) in charge round the clock;  
iv. has a fully equipped operation theatre of its own where surgical 
procedures are carried out; 
v. maintains daily records of patients and makes these accessible 
to the insurance company’s authorized personnel. 
21.  Hospitalisation means admission in a Hospital for a minimum Period of 24 consecutive 
“In-patient Care” hours except for specified procedures /  treatments, 
where such admission could be for a Period of less than 24 consecutive 
hours. 
22.  Illness means a sickness or a disease or pathological condition leading to the 
impairment of normal physiological function and requires medical 
treatment. 
 

--- PAGE 4 ---

 
Navi Health Seasonal Byte | UIN: NAVHLIP22059V032122 
                                                                   
Navi General Insurance Limited 
Registered Office: Salarpuria Business Centre, 4th Floor, 93, 5th A Block, Koramangala Industrial Layout, Bengaluru, Karnataka – 560095 
Toll-free number: 1800 123 0004 | Website: www.naviinsurance.com | Email: insurance.help@navi.com 
CIN: U66000KA2016PLC148551 | IRDAI Registration Number: 155 
Page 4 of 32 
a) Acute Condition  is a disease, Illness or Injury that is likely to 
respond quickly to treatment which aims to return the person to his 
or her state of health immediately before suffering the 
disease/Illness/Injury which leads to full recovery. 
 
b) Chronic Condition is defined as a disease,  Illness, or Injury that has 
one or more of the following characteristics:  
i. it needs ongoing or long -term monitoring through 
consultations, examinations, check-ups, and / or tests; 
ii. it needs ongoing or long-term control or relief of symptoms; 
iii. it requires rehabilitation for the patient or for the patient to be 
specially trained to cope with it; 
iv. it continues indefinitely; 
v. it recurs or is likely to recur. 
23.  Injury means accidental physical bodily harm excluding Illness or disease 
solely and directly caused by external, violent, visible and evident 
means which is verified and certified by a Medical Practitioner. 
24.  Inpatient / Inpatient 
Care 
means treatment for which the Insured Person  has to stay in a 
Hospital for more than 24 hours for a covered event. 
25.  Insured Person 
(Insured) 
means a person whose name specifically appears in the Policy 
Schedule and with respect to whom the premium has been received by 
Us. 
26.  Intensive Care Unit 
(ICU) 
means an identified section, ward or wing of a Hospital which is under 
the constant supervision of a dedicated Medical Practitioner  (s), and 
which is specially equip ped for the continuous monitoring and 
treatment of patients who are in a critical condition or require life 
support facilities and where the level of care and supervision is 
considerably more sophisticated and intensive than in the ordinary and 
other wards. 
27.  ICU (Intensive Care 
Unit) Charges 
means the amount charged by a Hospital towards ICU expenses which 
shall include the expenses for ICU bed, general medical support services 
provided to any ICU patient including monitoring devices, critical care 
nursing and intensivist charges. 
28.  IRDAI means Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India. 
29.  Material Fact means all relevant information sought by the company in the proposal 
form and other connected documents to enable it to take informed 
decision in the context of underwriting the risk. 
30.  Medical Advice means any consultation or advice from a Medical Practitioner including 
the issuance of any prescription or follow-up prescription. 
31.  Medical Expenses means those expenses that an Insured Person  has necessarily and 
actually incurred for medical treatment on account of Illness or Accident 
on the advice of a Medical Practitioner, as long as these are no more 
than would have been payable if the Insured Person  had not been 
insured and no more than other hospitals or doctors in the same locality 
would have charged for the same medical treatment. 

--- PAGE 5 ---

 
Navi Health Seasonal Byte | UIN: NAVHLIP22059V032122 
                                                                   
Navi General Insurance Limited 
Registered Office: Salarpuria Business Centre, 4th Floor, 93, 5th A Block, Koramangala Industrial Layout, Bengaluru, Karnataka – 560095 
Toll-free number: 1800 123 0004 | Website: www.naviinsurance.com | Email: insurance.help@navi.com 
CIN: U66000KA2016PLC148551 | IRDAI Registration Number: 155 
Page 5 of 32 
32.  Medical Practitioner means a person who holds a valid registration from the Medical Council 
of any State or Medical Council of India or Council for Indian Medicine or 
for Homeopathy set up by the Government of India or a State 
Government and is thereby entitled to  practice medicine within its 
jurisdiction; and is acting within its scope and jurisdiction of license. 
Medical Practitioner should not be the Insured Person  or his/her 
immediate Family member or anyone who is living in the same 
household as the Insured Person. 
33.  Medically necessary 
Treatment 
means any treatment, tests, medication, or stay in Hospital or part of a 
stay in Hospital which: 
i. is required for the medical management of the Illness or Injury 
suffered by the insured; 
ii. must not exceed the level of care necessary to provide safe, 
adequate and appropriate medical care in scope, duration, or 
intensity; 
iii. must have been prescribed by a Medical Practitioner; 
iv. must conform to the professional standards widely accepted in 
international medical practice or by the medical community in 
India. 
34.  Migration  means the right accorded to health insurance policyholders (including 
all members under family cover and members of group health insurance 
policy), to transfer the credit gained for pre -existing conditions and time 
bound exclusions, with the same insurer. 
35.  Network Provider means the Hospital enlisted by an Insurer, TPA or jointly by an Insurer 
and TPA to provide medical services to an insured by a cashless 
facility. 
36.  Non-Network 
Provider 
means any hospital, day care centre or other provider that is not part of 
the network. 
37.  Nominee means the person named in the Policy Schedule who is nominated by 
the Policyholder/Insured Person , to receive the benefits under this 
Policy in accordance with the terms of the Policy, if the 
Policyholder/Insured Person is deceased. 
38.  Notification of Claim means the process of intimating a claim to the insurer or TPA through 
any of the recognized modes of communication. 
39.  Outpatient (OPD) 
Treatment 
means the one in which the Insured visits a clinic/ Hospital or 
associated facility like a consultation room for Diagnosis and treatment 
based on the advice of a Medical Practitioner . The Insured is not 
admitted as a Day Care or In-Patient. 
40.  Policy means this Policy document read together with the attached Policy 
Schedule, Your Proposal Form  including any attachment like 
endorsement, rider, condition, warranty, declaration etc. 
41.  Policyholder means the person named in the Policy Schedule as the Policyholder. 
42.  Policy Period means the period commencing from Policy start date and time as 
specified in the Policy Schedule  and terminating at midnight on the 
Policy end date as specified in the Policy Schedule of this Policy. 

--- PAGE 6 ---

 
Navi Health Seasonal Byte | UIN: NAVHLIP22059V032122 
                                                                   
Navi General Insurance Limited 
Registered Office: Salarpuria Business Centre, 4th Floor, 93, 5th A Block, Koramangala Industrial Layout, Bengaluru, Karnataka – 560095 
Toll-free number: 1800 123 0004 | Website: www.naviinsurance.com | Email: insurance.help@navi.com 
CIN: U66000KA2016PLC148551 | IRDAI Registration Number: 155 
Page 6 of 32 
43.  Policy Schedule means schedule attached to and forming part of this Policy mentioning 
the details of the Insured Persons, the Sum Insured, the Policy Period 
and the limits and conditions, to which the benefits under the Policy are 
subject to, including any annexures and/or endorsements.  
44.  Policy Year means a period of 12 consecutive months commencing from the Policy 
Period Start Date and such 12 consecutive months thereafter but not 
beyond the Policy Period. 
45.  Portability means the right accorded to an individual health insurance policyholder 
(including all members under family cover), to transfer the credit gained 
for pre-existing conditions and time bound exclusions from one insurer 
to another insurer. 
46.  Pre-existing Disease means  any  condition,  ailment,  injury  or disease - 
a) That is/are diagnosed by a physician  within  48 months  prior to 
the effective date of the policy  issued by the insurer or its 
reinstatement or 
b) For which medical advice or  treatment  was  recommended  by, or  
received  from, a  physician  within 48 months prior to the effective 
date of the policy issued by the insurer or its reinstatement. 
47.  Pre-Hospitalisation 
Medical Expenses 
means Medical Expenses  incurred during pre -defined number of da ys 
preceding the Hospitalisation of the Insured Person, provided that: 
i. Such Medical Expenses  are incurred for the same condition for 
which the Insured Person’s Hospitalisation was required, and  
ii. The In -patient Hospitalisation claim for such Hospitalisation is 
admissible by the Insurance Company. 
48.  Post Hospitalisation 
Medical Expenses 
means Medical Expenses  incurred during pre -defined number of days 
immediately after the Insured Person  is discharged from the Hospital 
provided that: 
i. Such Medical Expenses are for the same condition for which the 
Insured Person’s Hospitalisation was required, and  
ii. The Inpatient Hospitalisation claim for such Hospitalisation is 
admissible by the insurance company. 
49.  Proposal Form means a form to be filled in by the prospect in written or electronic or 
any other format as approved by the Authority, for furnishing all 
material information as required by the Insurer in respect of a risk, in 
order to enable the Insurer to take informed  decision in the context of 
underwriting the risk, and in the Event of acceptance of the risk, to 
determine the rates, benefits, terms and conditions of the cover to be 
granted. 
50.  Qualified Nurse means a person who holds a valid registration from the Nursi ng Council 
of India or the Nursing Council of any state in India. 
51.  Reasonable and 
Customary charges 
means the charges for services or supplies, which are the standard 
charges for the specific provider and consistent with the prevailing 
charges in the geographical area for identical or similar services, taking 
into account the nature of the Illness/Injury involved. 

--- PAGE 7 ---

 
Navi Health Seasonal Byte | UIN: NAVHLIP22059V032122 
                                                                   
Navi General Insurance Limited 
Registered Office: Salarpuria Business Centre, 4th Floor, 93, 5th A Block, Koramangala Industrial Layout, Bengaluru, Karnataka – 560095 
Toll-free number: 1800 123 0004 | Website: www.naviinsurance.com | Email: insurance.help@navi.com 
CIN: U66000KA2016PLC148551 | IRDAI Registration Number: 155 
Page 7 of 32 
52.  Renewal means the terms on which the contract of insurance can be renewed on 
mutual consent with a provision of Grace Period   for treating the 
Renewal continuous for the purpose of gaining credit for Pre-Existing 
Diseases, time-bound exclusions and for all waiting periods. 
53.  Road Ambulance means a motor vehicle operated by a licenced/authorised service 
provider and equipped for taking sick or injured people requiring 
medical attention to and from Hospital in emergencies. 
54.  Specialist means a person who holds a master’s degree in the field of  medicine or 
Surgery and valid registration from the medical council of any state of 
India and is thereby entitled to practice medicine within its jurisdiction; 
and is acting within the scope and jurisdiction of his license. 
55.  Specified Illness means Diagnosis of below listed illness(es) confirmed by the Medical 
Practitioner on the basis of defined laboratory investigations or any 
other laboratory diagnosis as per the guidelines laid by Ministry of 
Health & Family Welfare, Govt of India. 
 
 
 Illness Defined Laboratory Investigation  
1 Dengue Fever Non-Structural Protein -1 Antigen Positive / 
IgM Antibody Capture ELISA (MAC- ELISA) 
2 Zika Fever Viral Nucleic Acid detection/Real Time -
Polymerase Chain Reaction 
3 Chikungunya IgM Antibody Capture ELISA (MAC - 
ELISA)/Real Time -Polymerase Chain 
Reaction 
4 Malaria Microscopic laboratory testing or by a rapid 
diagnostic test  
5 Leptospirosis Microscopic agglutination test (MAT) or IgM -
ELISA/ Polymerase Chain Reaction 
6 Swine Flu Real-time reverse transcriptase -polymerase 
chain reaction (rRT-PCR) 
7 Vector Borne 
Encephalitis 
Antibody Detection/Antigen 
Detection/Isolation/IgM-Enzyme Linked 
Immuno-Sorbent Assay/RT-PCR 
56.  Sum Insured  means the specified amount mentioned in the Policy Schedule  which 
represents Our maximum liability for each Insured Person or Family in 
case of Family Floater  for any and all benefits claimed for during the 
Policy Year. 
57.  Surgery or Surgical 
Procedure 
means manual and / or operative procedure (s) required for treatment of 
an Illness or Injury, correction of deformities and defects, diagnosis and 
cure of diseases, relief from suffering and prolongation of life, 
performed in a Hospital or day care centre by a Medical Practitioner. 
58.  TPA means any person who is registered under the IRDAI (Third Party 
Administrators - Health Services) Regulations, 2016 notified by the 
Authority, and is engaged, for a fee or remuneration by an insurance 
company, for the purposes of providing health services. 

--- PAGE 8 ---

 
Navi Health Seasonal Byte | UIN: NAVHLIP22059V032122 
                                                                   
Navi General Insurance Limited 
Registered Office: Salarpuria Business Centre, 4th Floor, 93, 5th A Block, Koramangala Industrial Layout, Bengaluru, Karnataka – 560095 
Toll-free number: 1800 123 0004 | Website: www.naviinsurance.com | Email: insurance.help@navi.com 
CIN: U66000KA2016PLC148551 | IRDAI Registration Number: 155 
Page 8 of 32 
59.  Unproven/Experiment
al treatment 
means the treatment, including drug experimental therapy which is not 
based on established medical practice in India, is treatment 
experimental or unproven. 
60.  Waiting Period 
 
 
means the period during which we shall not be liable to make payment 
for any claim within specified number of days from the commencement 
date of the policy. 
61.  We/Our/Us/Insurer means Navi General Insurance Limited 
62.  You/Your means the  Policyholder or Primary Insured named in the Policy 
Schedule. 
 
 
2. SCOPE OF COVER 
 
A. INDEMNITY PLAN 
 
We will cover Reasonable and Customary charges  for Medically Necessary Treatment  taken by the 
Insured Person for the Specified Illness(es) during the Policy Year under any of the benefits specified in 
the Policy schedule subject to the terms, conditions and exclusions of this Policy up to the Sum Insured 
specified in the Policy Schedule provided that: 
 
a. The Insured Person is diagnosed with the Specified Illness specifically listed and defined in this 
Policy; and  
 
b. Such Specified Illness is diagnosed after 15 days from the date of commencement of first Policy 
and being renewed thereafter within the Grace Period. 
 
    2A.1   INPATIENT TREATMENT 
I. INPATIENT HOSPITALISATION 
We will cover the following Medical Expenses incurred as In -Patient in a Hospital for more 
than 24 consecutive hours. 
 
Expenses shall include: 
a. Room Rent and Nursing charges; 
b. Intensive Care Unit (ICU) charges; 
c. Operation Theatre charges; 
d. Fees of Medical Practitioner/Specialists; 
e. Investigation & Diagnostic procedures; 
f. Medicines, Drugs and Consumables; 
g. Anaesthesia, Blood, Oxygen 
 
II. PRE - HOSPITALISATION  
We will cover the Pre-hospitalisation Medical Expenses  incurred upto 15 days before the 
date of admission to the Hospital. 
 
Note: 
The date of admission to the Hospital for this coverage shall be the date of the Insured 
Person’s first admission to the Hospital in relation to Any One Illness. 

--- PAGE 9 ---

 
Navi Health Seasonal Byte | UIN: NAVHLIP22059V032122 
                                                                   
Navi General Insurance Limited 
Registered Office: Salarpuria Business Centre, 4th Floor, 93, 5th A Block, Koramangala Industrial Layout, Bengaluru, Karnataka – 560095 
Toll-free number: 1800 123 0004 | Website: www.naviinsurance.com | Email: insurance.help@navi.com 
CIN: U66000KA2016PLC148551 | IRDAI Registration Number: 155 
Page 9 of 32 
III. POST- HOSPITALISATION  
We will cover the Post-Hospitalisation Medical Expenses incurred  upto 15 days after the 
Insured Person’s date of discharge from the Hospital. 
 
Note: 
In case of Any one illness  where insured person undergoes more than one Hospitalisation 
within 45 days, the cover for post hospitalisation expenses cumulatively shall not exceed 15 
days. 
 
IV. AYUSH  
We will cover the Medical Expenses  incurred on In-patient Hospitalisation up to the Sum 
Insured for Ayurveda, Yoga and Naturopathy, Unani, Siddha and Homeopathy  treatment 
undergone in: 
a. A government Hospital or in any institute recognized by government and/or accredited 
by Quality Council of India/National Accreditation Board on Health.  
 
b. Teaching Hospitals of AYUSH colleges recognised by Central Council of Indian Medicine 
(CCIM) and Central Council of Homoeopathy (CCH). 
 
c. AYUSH Hospitals  
 
NOTE – AYUSH Hospitals and AYUSH Day Care Centres should have either pre entry level certificate 
(or h igher level of certificate) issued by National Accreditation Board for Hospitals and Healthcare 
Providers (NABH) or State Level Certificate (or higher level of certificate) under National Quality 
Assurance Standards (NQAS), issued by National Health Systems Resources Centre (NHSRC). 
 
V. EMERGENCY ROAD AMBULANCE / REPATRIATION OF MORTAL REMAINS (RMR) / 
FUNERAL EXPENSES 
     We will cover the expenses up to the sub-limit stated in the Policy Schedule incurred towards 
transportation of an Insured Person by a registered healthcare or ambulance service provider 
in case of an Emergency. 
 
Expenses shall include:  
a. Transportation Costs towards transferring the Insured Person to Hospital or from one 
Hospital to another Hospital or to a Diagnostic Centre for advanced diagnostic 
treatment where such facility is not available at the existing Hospital and advised by 
the treating Medical Practitioner. 
 
b. When the Insured Person requires to be mov ed to a better Hospital facility due to lack 
of super speciality treatment in the existing Hospital.  
 
When the Insured Person  requires to be moved to home after discharge from the 
Hospital. The medical condition of Insured Person  is such that it requires services of 
Ambulance and is certified by treating Medical Practitioner. 
 
c. We will also cover the following expenses if the Insured Person  dies in the Hospital 
during the course of Hospitalisation.  
 

--- PAGE 10 ---

 
Navi Health Seasonal Byte | UIN: NAVHLIP22059V032122 
                                                                   
Navi General Insurance Limited 
Registered Office: Salarpuria Business Centre, 4th Floor, 93, 5th A Block, Koramangala Industrial Layout, Bengaluru, Karnataka – 560095 
Toll-free number: 1800 123 0004 | Website: www.naviinsurance.com | Email: insurance.help@navi.com 
CIN: U66000KA2016PLC148551 | IRDAI Registration Number: 155 
Page 10 of 32 
i. Transportation of Mortal remain s from Hospital to home and/or to cremation 
ground for funeral purpose; 
ii. Cremation Expenses; 
iii. Coffin Charges. 
 
Coverage shall be applicable only if We have accepted claim under In -patient Hospitalisation 
– 2A.1) I) 
 
2A.2   HOME CARE TREATMENT 
 
TREATMENT AT HOME : We will reimburse the Reasonable and Customary  charges related to 
the medical expenses incurred towards the medically necessary treatment taken at home if: 
 
a. The severity of Specified Illness of Insured Person is such that it requires continuous care 
and observation and can be managed at home and the treating Medical Practitioner has 
recommended for such treatment at home; and 
 
b. Such treatment is certified by treating Medical Practitioner as non-Emergency. 
 
c. For this coverage, medically necessary treatment includes: 
i. Fees of Medical Practitioner/ Specialists; 
ii. Private Qualified Nurse charges 
iii. Investigation & Diagnostic procedures; 
iv. Medicines, Drugs and Consumables; 
v. Blood, Oxygen; 
vi. Non- Medical Expenses (Refer Annexure - 1 for complete list) 
 
d.   Such treatment shall be applicable for the period of 30 days from the date of diagnosis  of 
specified illness. 
 
Our maximum liability under this section will be limited to the sub -limit specified in the Policy 
Schedule. 
 
2A.3   OPD TREATMENT 
 
OPD CONSULTATIONS INCLUDING AYUSH - We will reimburse the Reasonable and 
Customary charges related to the medical expenses incurred towards the medically necessary 
treatment taken on Outpatient basis: 
 
i. MEDICAL PRACTIONER EXPENSES 
     We will reimburse the Medical expenses  incurred for the consultation service of Medical 
Practitioner for Outpatient Treatment. 
 
ii. DIAGNOSTIC TESTS 
     We will reimburse the Medical expenses  incurred for laboratory investigations and /or 
Diagnostic examinations, if recommended by the treating Medical Practitioner. 
 

--- PAGE 11 ---

 
Navi Health Seasonal Byte | UIN: NAVHLIP22059V032122 
                                                                   
Navi General Insurance Limited 
Registered Office: Salarpuria Business Centre, 4th Floor, 93, 5th A Block, Koramangala Industrial Layout, Bengaluru, Karnataka – 560095 
Toll-free number: 1800 123 0004 | Website: www.naviinsurance.com | Email: insurance.help@navi.com 
CIN: U66000KA2016PLC148551 | IRDAI Registration Number: 155 
Page 11 of 32 
iii. PHARMACY 
     We will reimburse the Medical expenses  incurred for purchase of medicines from a 
pharmacy, if prescribed by the treating Medical Practitioner/ Specialist. 
 
Our maximum liability under this section will be limited to the sub -limit specified in the Policy 
Schedule. 
 
 
B. BENEFIT PLAN 
 
2B.1  FIXED CASH BENEFIT 
 
We will Pay lumpsum amount as specified in the Policy Schedule,  if the insured Person is 
diagnosed with Dengue / Malaria during the Policy Year subject to the terms, conditions and 
exclusions of this Policy provided that: 
 
a. The Insured Person is diagnosed with the Dengue / Malaria as per Specified Illness  & 
defined laboratory investigations under this Policy; and  
 
b. Such said Illness is diagnosed after 15 days from the date of commencement of first Policy 
and being renewed thereafter within the Grace Period. 
 
3. WAITING PERIODS 
 
We will not be liable for any claim for specified illness within 15 days from the commencement date 
of the Policy. 
 
4. GENERAL EXCLUSIONS 
 
We will not make payment for a claim resulting directly or indirectly from or attributable to any of the 
following: 
 
EXCLUSIONS SPECIFIC TO THE POLICY WHICH CANNOT BE WAIVED 
 
1. Any Illness(es) which is not specified under Specified Illness.  
 
2. Any specified illness that is not diagnosed by the Medical Practitioner. 
 
3. Comorbid Conditions 
Any medical expenses or non-medical expenses related to Comorbid Conditions. 
 
4. Geography 
Diagnosis and treatment outside India. 
 
5. Dietary supplements and substances that can be purchased without prescription, including 
but not limited to Vitamins, minerals a nd organic substances unless prescribed by a medical 
practitioner as part of hospitalization claim or day care procedure. Code- Excl14 
 
 

--- PAGE 12 ---

 
Navi Health Seasonal Byte | UIN: NAVHLIP22059V032122 
                                                                   
Navi General Insurance Limited 
Registered Office: Salarpuria Business Centre, 4th Floor, 93, 5th A Block, Koramangala Industrial Layout, Bengaluru, Karnataka – 560095 
Toll-free number: 1800 123 0004 | Website: www.naviinsurance.com | Email: insurance.help@navi.com 
CIN: U66000KA2016PLC148551 | IRDAI Registration Number: 155 
Page 12 of 32 
6. Medically Necessary Expenses  
Any treatment or part of a treatment that is not reasonable and medically necessary and drugs 
or treatments which are not supported by a prescription. 
 
7. Preventive Vaccinations  
Expenses towards any treatment related to preventive care, vaccination, inoculation and 
immunizations (except in case of post -bite vaccination treatment)  unless certified and 
recommended by the attending Medical Practitioner as part of in -patient treatment as a direct 
consequence of an otherwise covered claim.   
 
8. Investigation & Evaluation – Code – Excl04 -  
a) Expenses related to any admission primarily for diagnostics and  evaluation  purposes 
only are excluded. 
b) Any diagnostic expenses which are not related or not incidental to the current 
diagnosis and treatment are  excluded.  
 
9. Congenital anomalies 
Screening, counselling and treatment related to External congenital anomalies. 
 
10. Unrecognized Physician 
Certification/diagnosis/treatment from persons not registered as Medical Practitioners , or from 
a Medical Practitioner who is practicing outside the discipline that he/she is licensed for. 
 
11. Maternity Expenses - Code – Excl18 -  
i. Medical treatment expenses traceable to childbirth (including complicated deliveries 
and caesarean sections incurred during hospitalization) except ectopic pregnancy;  
ii. Expenses towards miscarriage (unless due to an accident) and lawful medical 
termination of pregnancy during the policy  period. 
 
12. Unproven Treatments – Code – Excl16 - Expenses related to any unproven treatment, services 
and supplies for or in connection wit h any treatment. Unproven treatments are treatments, 
procedures or supplies that lack significant medical documentation to support their  
effectiveness. 
 
5. GENERAL TERMS & CONDITIONS 
 
5.1   CONDITION PRECEDENT TO THE CONTRACT 
 
1. AGE 
A person shall be eligible to become an Insured Person  if he is of an age group of ninety -one 
(91) days to seventy-five (75) years. 
 
2. CONDITION PRECEDENT TO ADMISSION OF LIABILITY 
The terms and conditions of the policy must be fulfilled by the insured person for the Company to 
make any payment for claim(s) arising under the policy. 
 
 
 

--- PAGE 13 ---

 
Navi Health Seasonal Byte | UIN: NAVHLIP22059V032122 
                                                                   
Navi General Insurance Limited 
Registered Office: Salarpuria Business Centre, 4th Floor, 93, 5th A Block, Koramangala Industrial Layout, Bengaluru, Karnataka – 560095 
Toll-free number: 1800 123 0004 | Website: www.naviinsurance.com | Email: insurance.help@navi.com 
CIN: U66000KA2016PLC148551 | IRDAI Registration Number: 155 
Page 13 of 32 
3. DISCLOSURE TO INFORMATION NORM 
The policy shall be void and all premium paid thereon shall be forfeited to the Company in the 
event of misrepresentation, mis descr iption or non -disclosure of any material fact  by the 
policyholder. 
 
“Material facts” for the purpose of this policy shall mean all relevant information sought by the 
company in the proposal form and other connected documents to enable it to take informed 
decision in the context of underwriting the risk. 
 
4. ELECTRONIC TRANSACTIONS 
The Policyholder/ Insured Person  agrees to adhere to and comply with all such terms and 
conditions as may be imposed for electronic transactions that We may prescribe from time to 
time which shall be within the terms and conditions of the contract, and hereby agrees and 
confirms that all transactions effected by or through facilities for conducting remote transactions 
including the Internet, World Wide Web, electronic data i nterchange, call centres, tele -service 
operations (whether voice, video, data or combination thereof) or by means of electronic, 
computer, automated machines network or through other means of telecommunication, 
established by or on behalf of Us, for and in  respect of the Policy or its terms, shall constitute 
legally binding and valid transactions when done in adherence to and in compliance with Our 
terms and conditions for such facilities, as may be prescribed from time to time which shall be 
within the terms and conditions of t he contract. However, the terms of the condition shall not 
override provisions of any law(s) or statutory regulations including provisions of IRDAI 
regulations for protection of Policyholder’s interests. 
 
5. NO CONSTRUCTIVE NOTICE 
Any knowledge or information  of any circumstance or condition in relation to the Policyholder/ 
Insured Person  which is in Our possession and not specifically informed by the Policyholder/ 
Insured Person  shall not be held to bind or prejudicially affect Us notwithstanding subsequent 
acceptance of any premium. 
 
5.2   CONDITIONS APPLICABLE DURING CONTRACT 
 
1. ALTERATIONS TO THE POLICY 
The proposal form, declaration, Policy Schedule and Policy constitutes the complete contract of 
insurance. This Policy cannot be changed by any one (including an insurance agent or broker) 
except Us. Any change that We make will be communicated to You by a written endorsement 
signed and stamped by Us. 
 
2. CANCELLATION OF POLICY 
a. The policyholder may cancel this policy by giving 15days’ written notice and in such an 
event, the Company shall refund premium for the unexpired policy period as detailed below.  
Months 1 year 2 years 3 years 
< 6 30% 59% 68% 
6 -11 0% 37% 54% 
12 – 17 0% 15% 39% 
18 – 23 0% 0% 25% 
24 – 29 0% 0% 10% 
30 – 36 0% 0% 0% 

--- PAGE 14 ---

 
Navi Health Seasonal Byte | UIN: NAVHLIP22059V032122 
                                                                   
Navi General Insurance Limited 
Registered Office: Salarpuria Business Centre, 4th Floor, 93, 5th A Block, Koramangala Industrial Layout, Bengaluru, Karnataka – 560095 
Toll-free number: 1800 123 0004 | Website: www.naviinsurance.com | Email: insurance.help@navi.com 
CIN: U66000KA2016PLC148551 | IRDAI Registration Number: 155 
Page 14 of 32 
Notwithstanding anything contained herein or otherwise, no refunds of premium shall be 
made in respect of Cancellation where, any claim has been admitted or has been lodged or 
any benefit has been availed by the insured person under the policy. 
 
b. The Company may cancel the policy at any time on grounds of misrepresentation non -
disclosure of material facts, fraud by the insured person by giving 15 days’ written notice. 
There would be no refund of premium on cancellation on grounds of misrepresentation, non -
disclosure of material facts or fraud. 
 
3. COMMUNICATIONS & NOTICES 
a.  Any notice, direction or instruction under this Policy shall be in writing and if it is:  
• To any Insured Person, then it shall be sent to You at Your last updated address as 
shown in Our records and You shall act for all Insured Persons for these purposes. 
• To Us, it shall be delivered to Our address specified in the Schedule.  
 
b. No insurance agents, brokers or other person or entity is authorised to receive any notice, 
direction or instruction on Our behalf unless We have expressly stated to the contrary in  
writing.  
 
c. Notice and instructions will be deemed served ten (10) days after posting or immediately 
upon receipt in the case of hand delivery, facsimile or e-mail after posting. 
 
d. You must immediately bring to Our notice any change in the address or contac t details. If 
You fail to inform Us, We shall send notice to the last known address and it would be 
considered that the notice has been sent to You. 
 
e. You must include Your Policy number for any communication with Us. 
 
4. FREE LOOK 
The Free Look Period shall be applicable on new individual health insurance policies and not on 
renewals or at the time of porting/migrating the policy. 
 
The insured person shall be allowed free look period of fifteen days from date of receipt of the 
policy document to review the terms and conditions of the policy, and to return the same if not 
acceptable. 
 
If the insured has not made any claim during the Free Look Period, the insured shall be entitled 
to 
 
i. a refund of the premium paid less any expenses incurred by the Company o n medical 
examination of the insured person and the stamp duty charges or 
ii. where the risk has already commenced and the option of return of the policy is exercised 
by the insured person, a deduction towards the proportionate risk premium for period of 
cover or 
iii. Where only a part of the insurance coverage has commenced, such proportionate 
premium commensurate with the insurance coverage during such period;  
 
 

--- PAGE 15 ---

 
Navi Health Seasonal Byte | UIN: NAVHLIP22059V032122 
                                                                   
Navi General Insurance Limited 
Registered Office: Salarpuria Business Centre, 4th Floor, 93, 5th A Block, Koramangala Industrial Layout, Bengaluru, Karnataka – 560095 
Toll-free number: 1800 123 0004 | Website: www.naviinsurance.com | Email: insurance.help@navi.com 
CIN: U66000KA2016PLC148551 | IRDAI Registration Number: 155 
Page 15 of 32 
5. GEOGRAPHY 
This Policy applies to events or occurrences taking place only in Republic of India. All payments 
under this Policy will only be made in Indian Rupees. 
 
6. POLICY DISPUTES 
Any and all disputes or differences concerning the interpretation of the coverage, terms, 
conditions, limitations and/ or exclusions under this Policy shall be governed by Indian law and 
shall be subject to the jurisdiction of the Indian Courts. 
 
7. PROTECTION OF POLICY HOLDERS INTEREST 
This Policy is subject to IRDAI (Protection of Policyholders’ Interest) Regulation, 2017 or any 
amendment thereof from time to time. 
 
8. RECORDS TO BE MAINTAINED 
You or the Insured Person , as the case may be shall keep an accurate record containing all 
medical records pertaining to the tre atment taken for any liability under the Policy and shall 
allow Us or Our representative(s) to inspect such records. You or the Insured Person as the case 
may be, shall furnish such information as may be required by Us under this Policy at any time 
during the Policy Period  and up to three years after the Policy expiration, or until final 
adjustment (if any) and resolution of all claims under this Policy. 
 
9. POSSIBILITY OF REVISION OF TERMS OF THE POLICY INCLUDING THE PREMIUM RATES 
The Company, with prior appr oval of IRDAI, may revise or modify the terms of the policy 
including the premium rates. The insured person shall be notified three months before the 
changes are effected. 
 
10. MORATORIUM PERIOD  
 After completion of eight continuous years under the policy no look back to be applied. This 
period of eight years is called as moratorium period. The moratorium would be applicable for the 
sums insured of the first policy and subsequently completion of 8 continuous years would be 
applicable from date of enh ancement of sums insured only on the enhanced limits. After the 
expiry of Moratorium Period no health insurance claim shall be contestable except for proven 
fraud and permanent exclusions specified in the policy contract. The policies would however be 
subject to all limits, sub limits, co-payments, deductibles as per the policy contract. 
 
11. TERMINATION OF POLICY 
This Policy terminates on earliest of the following events:  
a. Cancellation of Policy as per the cancellation provision.  
b. On the Policy expiry date. 
c. On death of the Insured Person. 
 
12. WITHDRAWAL OF THE POLICY 
i. In the likelihood of this product being withdrawn in future, the Company will intimate the  
insured person about the same 90 days prior to expiry of the policy.  
 
ii. Insured Person will have the option to migrate to similar health insurance product available 
with the Company at the time of renewal with all the accrued continuity benefits such as 

--- PAGE 16 ---

 
Navi Health Seasonal Byte | UIN: NAVHLIP22059V032122 
                                                                   
Navi General Insurance Limited 
Registered Office: Salarpuria Business Centre, 4th Floor, 93, 5th A Block, Koramangala Industrial Layout, Bengaluru, Karnataka – 560095 
Toll-free number: 1800 123 0004 | Website: www.naviinsurance.com | Email: insurance.help@navi.com 
CIN: U66000KA2016PLC148551 | IRDAI Registration Number: 155 
Page 16 of 32 
cumulative bonus, waiver of waiting period. as per IRDAI guidelines, provi ded the policy has 
been maintained without a break. 
 
5.3   CONDITIONS FOR RENEWAL OF CONTRACT 
 
1. CONTINUITY 
Insured Person  would have an option to migrate to Our other Health insurance product(s), if 
available, subject to Our underwriting guidelines. Likewise, children when exiting on account of 
being not dependent on parents will also be given an option to migrate to Our Individual health 
insurance plans subject t o Our underwriting guidelines. Insured Person  will be entitled for 
accrued continuity benefits as per prevailing Portability guidelines issued by the regulator. 
 
2. MIGRATION  
The insured person will have the option to migrate the policy to other health insur ance 
products/plans offered by the company by applying for migration of the policy atleast 30 days 
before the policy renewal date as per IRDAI guidelines on Migration. If such person is presently 
covered and has been continuously covered without any lapses  under any health insurance 
product/plan offered by the company, the insured person will get the accrued continuity benefits 
in waiting periods as per IRDAI guidelines on migration. 
 
For Detailed Guidelines on migration, kindly refer the link – 
https://www.naviinsurance.com/documents/2967/Portability_and_Migration_9ksGGW1.pdf   
 
3. PORTABILITY 
The insured person will have the option to port the policy to other insurers by applying to such 
insurer to port the entire policy along with all the members of the family, if any, at least 45 days 
before, but not earlier than 60 days from the policy renewal date as per IRDAI guidelines related 
to portability. If such person is presently covered and has been continuously covered without any 
lapses under any health insurance policy with an Indian General/Health insurer, the proposed 
insured person will get the accrued continuity benefits in waiting periods as per IRDAI  guidelines 
on portability. 
 
For Detailed Guidelines on Portability, kindly refer the link – 
https://www.naviinsurance.com/documents/2967/Portability_and_Mig ration_9ksGGW1.pdf 
 
4. PORTABILITY PROCESS  
Insured Persons  covered under this Policy or any other Retail Health Insurance Policy from a 
Non-Life Insurance Company/Health Insurance Company registered with the Authority shall have 
the right to migrate from such Policy to a suitable Health insurance Policy offered by Us provided 
that: 
a. You sho uld submit application for portability with complete documentation at least 45 
days prior to expiry of your existing health insurance Policy 
b. Portability benefit will be credited up to the extent of the sum of previous Sum Insured  
c. All waiting periods, if any shall be applicable individually for each Insured Person. 
d. Acceptance of the Portability application will be based on the underwriting guidelines of 
the Company. We may at Our sole discretion restrict the terms on which We may offer 
the cover. 

--- PAGE 17 ---

 
Navi Health Seasonal Byte | UIN: NAVHLIP22059V032122 
                                                                   
Navi General Insurance Limited 
Registered Office: Salarpuria Business Centre, 4th Floor, 93, 5th A Block, Koramangala Industrial Layout, Bengaluru, Karnataka – 560095 
Toll-free number: 1800 123 0004 | Website: www.naviinsurance.com | Email: insurance.help@navi.com 
CIN: U66000KA2016PLC148551 | IRDAI Registration Number: 155 
Page 17 of 32 
e. There is n o obligation on Us to insure all Insured Persons on the proposed terms, even if 
We have received all the documentation from You. 
f. In case You opt to port to any other Insurance Company for Renewal, under the 
Portability provision and the outcome of such Portability request is awaited from the 
new insurer on the date of Renewal: 
i. On Your request, We may extend this Policy for a period of not less than one 
month at an additional premium to be paid on a prorate basis. 
ii. If a claim is reported during this extension period, You shall be required to first pay 
the full annual Policy premium. Our liability for the payment of such c laim shall 
commence only once such premium is received. 
 
5. RENEWAL OF POLICY 
The policy shall ordinarily be renewable except on grounds of fraud, misrepresentation by the 
insured person. 
i. The Company shall endeavor to give notice for renewal. However, the Company is not under 
obligation to give any notice for renewal. 
 
ii. Renewal shall not be denied on the ground that the insured person had made a claim or 
claims in the preceding policy years. 
 
iii. Request for renewal along with requisite premium shall be received by the Company before 
the end of the policy period. 
 
iv. At the end of the policy period, the policy shall terminate and can be renewed within the 
Grace Period of thirty (30) days to maintain continuity of benefits without break in policy. 
Coverage is not available during the grace period. 
 
v. No loading shall apply on renewals based on individual claims experience. 
 
6. CHANGE OF POLICYHOLDER 
The Policyholder may be changed only at the time of Renewal. The new Policyholder must be a 
member of insured person’s Family. 
 
The Policyholder may be changed during the Policy Period upon request in case of death of the 
Policyholder, emigration of Policyholder from India or in case of divorce of the Policyholder. 
 
5.4   CONDITIONS WHEN A CLAIM ARISES 
 
1. ARBITRATION 
If We admit liability for any claim but any difference or dispute arises as to the amount payable 
for any claim the same shall be decided by reference to Arbitration. The Arbitrator shall be 
appointed in accordance with the provisions of the Arbitration and Con ciliation Act, 1996 or any 
amendment thereto. No reference to Arbitration shall be made unless We have admitted Our 
liability for a claim in writing. 
 
2. DISCLAIMER OF CLAIM 
If We shall disclaim liability to the Insured for any claim and if the Insured shall not, within 
twelve (12) calendar months from the date or receipt of the notice of such disclaimer notify Us 

--- PAGE 18 ---

 
Navi Health Seasonal Byte | UIN: NAVHLIP22059V032122 
                                                                   
Navi General Insurance Limited 
Registered Office: Salarpuria Business Centre, 4th Floor, 93, 5th A Block, Koramangala Industrial Layout, Bengaluru, Karnataka – 560095 
Toll-free number: 1800 123 0004 | Website: www.naviinsurance.com | Email: insurance.help@navi.com 
CIN: U66000KA2016PLC148551 | IRDAI Registration Number: 155 
Page 18 of 32 
in writing that he does not accept such disclaimer and intends to recover his claim from Us, 
then the claim shall for all purposes be deemed to have  been abandoned and shall not 
thereafter be recoverable under the Policy.  
 
3. PHYSICAL EXAMINATION 
Any Medical Practitioner authorized by Us shall be allowed to examine the Insured Person in 
case of any alleged Specified Illness . Non-co-operation by the Insured Person will result into 
rejection of his/her claim. We will bear the cost towards performing such medical examination 
(at the specified location) of the Insured Person.  
 
4. COMPLETE DISCHARGE 
Any payment to the policyholder,  insured person or his/ her nominees or his/ her legal 
representative or assignee or to the Hospital, as the case may be, for any benefit under the 
policy shall be a valid discharge towards payment of claim by the Company to the extent of that 
amount for the particular claim. 
 
5. NOMINATION  
The policyholder is required at the inception of the policy to make a nomination for the purpose of 
payment of claims under the policy in the event of death of the policyholder. Any change of 
nomination shall be communicated to the company in writing and such change shall be effective 
only when an endorsement on the policy is made. In the event of death of the policyholder, the 
Company will pay the nominee {as named in the Policy Schedule/Policy Certificate/Endorsement (if 
any)} and in case there is no subsisting nominee, to the legal heirs or legal representatives of the 
policyholder whose discharge shall be treated as full and final discharge of its liability under the 
policy. 
 
6. CLAIM PROCESS & MANAGEMENT 
Completed claim forms and documents for processing must be furnished to Us / TPA within the 
stipulated timelines for reimbursement of all claims. Failure to furnish this documentation within 
the time required shall not invalidate nor reduce any claim if You can sa tisfy that it was not 
reasonably possible for You to submit / give proof within such time.  
 
a. POLICYHOLDER’S / INSURED PERSON’S DUTIES AT THE TIME OF CLAIM  
 
On occurrence of an event which will eventually lead to a Claim under this Policy, the 
Insured Person shall: 
a. Forthwith intimate the Claim in accordance with claim intimation section # 5.4.5) b) of 
this Policy. 
b. If so, requested by Us, the Insured Person will have to submit himself / herself for a 
medical examination including any Pathological / Diagnostic examination by 
Independent Medical Practitioner as often as it is considered reasonable and 
necessary. The cost of such examination will be borne by Us. 
c. Allow the Medical Practitioner or any of Our representatives to inspect the medical and 
Hospitalization records, investigate the facts. 
d. Assist and not hinder or prevent Our representatives in pursuance of their duties for 
ascertaining the admissibility of the Claim under the Policy. 
 
 

--- PAGE 19 ---

 
Navi Health Seasonal Byte | UIN: NAVHLIP22059V032122 
                                                                   
Navi General Insurance Limited 
Registered Office: Salarpuria Business Centre, 4th Floor, 93, 5th A Block, Koramangala Industrial Layout, Bengaluru, Karnataka – 560095 
Toll-free number: 1800 123 0004 | Website: www.naviinsurance.com | Email: insurance.help@navi.com 
CIN: U66000KA2016PLC148551 | IRDAI Registration Number: 155 
Page 19 of 32 
b. CLAIM INTIMATION 
If You suffer from any of the specified Illness  that may result in a claim, then as a 
Condition Precedent  to Our liability, You must comply with the following claims 
procedures: 
 
               You must notify Your claim to Us / Our TPA in writing or at call centre. 
 
Plan Type of Event Notify Us or Our TPA 
Indemnity  Planned Hospitalisation for 
Specified Illness 
Immediately and in any event at least 48 hours 
prior to Your admission. 
Emergency Hospitalisation 
for Specified Illness 
Within 24 hours of Your admission to Hospital 
or before discharge whichever is earlier 
Benefit Diagnosis of Dengue / 
Malaria 
Immediately and in any event at least 48 hours 
from the date of diagnosis. 
 
The following details are to be provided to Us at the time of intimation of Claim: 
a. Policy Number 
b. Name of the Policyholder 
c. Health card id number 
d. Name of the Insured Person in whose relation the Claim is being lodged  
e. Name of Specified Illness 
f. Name and Address of the attending Medical Practitioner  and Hospital (if 
admission has taken place) 
g. Date of Diagnosis of Specified Illness 
h. Date of Admission 
i. Any other information, documentation as requested by Us 
 
c. CASHLESS FACILITY (Applicable only for Indemnity Plan) 
Cashless Facility  is available for Hospitalisation only at Our Network Provider . The 
Insured Person can avail Cashless Facility at Network Provider, by presenting the health 
card as provided by Us with this Policy, along with a valid photo identification proof (Voter 
ID card / Driving License / Passport / PAN Card / Aadhar Card, any other identity proof as 
approved by Us. 
 
A. For Planned Hospitalization 
i. The Insured Person  should at least 48 hrs prior to admission to the Hospital 
approach the Network Provider for Hospitalisation for medical treatment. 
ii. The Network Provider will issue the request for authorization letter for 
Hospitalisation in the pre-authorization form prescribed by the Authority. 
iii. The Network Provider shall electronically send the pre -authorization form along 
with all the relevant detail s to the 24 (twenty -four) hour authorization/cashless 
department of the TPA along with contact details of the treating Medical 
Practitioner and the Insured Person. 
iv. Upon receiving the pre -authorization form and all related medical information 
from the Network Provider, the eligibility of cover under the Policy will be verified. 
v. Wherever the information provided in the request is sufficient to ascertain the 
authorisation, the authorisation letter will be issued to the Network Provider.  
Wherever additional in formation or documents are required, the same will be 

--- PAGE 20 ---

 
Navi Health Seasonal Byte | UIN: NAVHLIP22059V032122 
                                                                   
Navi General Insurance Limited 
Registered Office: Salarpuria Business Centre, 4th Floor, 93, 5th A Block, Koramangala Industrial Layout, Bengaluru, Karnataka – 560095 
Toll-free number: 1800 123 0004 | Website: www.naviinsurance.com | Email: insurance.help@navi.com 
CIN: U66000KA2016PLC148551 | IRDAI Registration Number: 155 
Page 20 of 32 
called for from the Network Provider and upon satisfactory receipt of last 
necessary documents the authorisation will be issued. All authorisations will be 
issued within a period of 3 hours from the receipt of last complete documents. 
vi. The Authorisation letter will include details of sanctioned amount and any non - 
payable items if applicable. 
vii. The authorisation letter shall be valid only for a period of 15 days from the date of 
issuance of authorization.  
 
In the event that the cost of Hospitalisation exceeds the authorized limit as mentioned in 
the authorization letter: 
a. The Network Provider shall request for an enhancement of authorisation limit. 
Eligibility will be verified, and the enhancement will be ev aluated on the availability 
of further limits.  
b. We shall accept or decline such additional expenses within 3 hours of receiving the 
request for enhancement. 
 
At the time of discharge: 
a. The Network Provider may forward a final request for authorization for a ny residual 
amount along with the discharge summary and the billing format in accordance with 
the process. 
b. Upon receipt of the final authorisation letter, Insured may be discharged by the 
Network Provider. 
c. Network provider to ensure that the final authorization letter is signed by Insured. 
d. Insured must ensure to take photocopies of relevant medical records for future 
reference. 
 
B. In case of Emergency Hospitalization 
i. The Insured Person may approach the Network Provider for Hospitalisation. 
ii. Insured Person  will need to provide health Card / Health insurance Policy details at 
Hospital admission counter. 
iii. The Network Provider shall forward the request for authorization within 24 hours of 
admission to the Hospital or before discharge whichever is earlier. 
iv. In the interim, the Network Provider may either consider treating the Insured Person 
by taking a token deposit or treating as per their norms.  
v. The Network Provider shall refund the deposit amount to you barring a token amount 
to take care of non-covered expenses once the authorization is issued.  
vi. The Network Provider will send the claim documents to TPA within 15 days from the 
date of discharge from Hospital 
vii. Any additional documents may be called as required based on the circumsta nces of 
the claim.  
viii. There can be instances where Cashless Facility  may be denied for Hospitalisation 
due to insufficient Sum Insured or insufficient information to determine admissibility 
in which case You/ Insured Person  may be required to pay for the trea tment and 
submit the claim for reimbursement to TPA which will be considered subject to the 
Policy Terms &Conditions. 
ix. We in Our sole discretion, reserves the right to modify, add or restrict any Network 
Provider for Cashless services under the Policy. Before availing the Cashless service, 

--- PAGE 21 ---

 
Navi Health Seasonal Byte | UIN: NAVHLIP22059V032122 
                                                                   
Navi General Insurance Limited 
Registered Office: Salarpuria Business Centre, 4th Floor, 93, 5th A Block, Koramangala Industrial Layout, Bengaluru, Karnataka – 560095 
Toll-free number: 1800 123 0004 | Website: www.naviinsurance.com | Email: insurance.help@navi.com 
CIN: U66000KA2016PLC148551 | IRDAI Registration Number: 155 
Page 21 of 32 
the Policyholder / Insured Person is required to check the applicable/latest list of 
Network Provider on TPA’s website or by calling call centre 
 
d. CLAIM REIMBURSEMENT PROCESS 
Wherever You have opted for a reimbursement of expenses, You may submit the 
documents for reimbursement of the claim to Our / TPA office not later than 15 days from 
the date of discharge from the Hospital. You can obtain a Claim Form from any of Our / 
TPA Offices or download a copy from Our website at www.naviinsurance.com. 
 
e. CLAIM DOCUMENTS 
In case of any Claim for the covered Benefit, the list of necessary documents as mentioned 
below shall be provided by the Policyholder/Insured Person, immediately but not later than 
15 days from the date of discharge from the Hospital, to avail the Claim.  
 
Completed claim forms and processing documents must be furnished to Us within the 
stipulated timelines for all claims. We may consider the delay in extreme cases of hardship 
where it is proved to Our satisfaction that under the circumstances in which the Insured 
Person was placed, it was not possible for him or any other person to give documents.  
 
Section Necessary Documents 
For Section 2A.1 - 
Inpatient Treatment 
a. Claim Form Duly Filled and Signed 
b. Original signed pre-authorisation request, if applicable  
c. Copy of authorisation approval letter (s) 
d. Copy of Photo ID of Patient Verified by the Hospital 
e. Original Discharge/Death Summary 
f. Operation Theatre Notes (if any) 
g. Original Hospital Main Bill along with break up Bill and 
original receipts 
h. Original Investigation Reports, X Ray, MRI, CT Films, HPE 
i. Details of the implants including the sticker indicating the 
type as well as invoice towards the cost of implant 
j. Doctors Reference Slips for Investigations/ Pharmacy 
k. Original Pharmacy Bills 
l. MLC/FIR Report/Post Mortem Report (if applicable and 
conducted). 
m. KYC documents (Photo ID proof, Pan Card, Aadhar Card) 
n. Cancelled cheque for NEFT payment 
For Section 2A.2 - 
Home Care Treatment 
/ 2A.3 – OPD 
Treatment  
 
a. Claim Form Duly Filled and Signed 
b. Copy of Photo ID of Patient  
c. Original Outpatient Prescriptions or Treatment notes. 
d. Original Outpatient Invoices 
e. Original Discharge/Death Summary (if any) 
f. Original Investigation and Diagnostic Reports 
g. Doctors Reference Slips for Investigations/ Pharmacy 
h. Original Pharmacy Bills 
i. Original Invoices for Medical Services 
j. KYC documents (Photo ID proof, Pan Card, Aadhar Card) 
k. Cancelled cheque for NEFT payment 

--- PAGE 22 ---

 
Navi Health Seasonal Byte | UIN: NAVHLIP22059V032122 
                                                                   
Navi General Insurance Limited 
Registered Office: Salarpuria Business Centre, 4th Floor, 93, 5th A Block, Koramangala Industrial Layout, Bengaluru, Karnataka – 560095 
Toll-free number: 1800 123 0004 | Website: www.naviinsurance.com | Email: insurance.help@navi.com 
CIN: U66000KA2016PLC148551 | IRDAI Registration Number: 155 
Page 22 of 32 
 
Please be informed that all handwritten invoices to be stamped, 
signed and certified by treating medical practitioner and should 
include registration number on each invoice. 
 
For Section 2B.1 – 
Fixed Cash Benefit 
a. Claim Form Duly Filled and Signed 
b. Copy of Photo ID of Patient  
c. Outpatient / Inpatient Prescriptions or Treatment notes. 
d. Copy Discharge (if any) 
e. Copy of Investigation and Diagnostic Reports 
f. Doctors Reference Slips for Investigations/ Pharmacy 
g. KYC documents (Photo ID proof, Pan Card, Aadhar Card) 
h. Cancelled cheque for NEFT payment 
 
f. SCRUTINY OF CLAIM DOCUMENTS 
We shall scrutinize the Claim and accompanying documents. Any deficiency of documents 
shall be intimated to You and / the Network Provider, as the case may be and subsequent 
reminders will follow.  
a. During claim processing if the claims are found deficient in  documents, TPA shall 
intimate the same to the Policyholder / Insured Person within three (3) working days 
of receiving claim documents.  
b. First reminder for deficient documents will be sent within seven (7) days of first 
deficiency letter and Second remind er – within ten (10) days of first reminder 
deficiency letter. Final reminder letter will be sent from ten (10) days from second 
reminder. 
We will send a maximum of three (3) reminders following which, We will send a 
rejection letter after fifteen (15) days from the final reminder if the deficient 
documents are not received. 
 
g. CLAIM INVESTIGATION 
We may investigate claims if reasonably required to determine the validity of claim. 
Verification carried out, if any, will be done by Individuals or Medical Practitioners  or 
entities authorized by Us to carry out such verification / investigation(s) and the costs for 
such verification / investigation shall be borne by Us.  
 
You additionally hereby consent to disclose Us of documentation and information that may 
be held with Your medical professionals and other insurers. 
 
h. PRE-& POST HOSPITALISATION CLAIMS 
Claim documents for Pre-& Post hospitalisation should be sent to TPA within 15 days of 
completion of treatment.   
 
i. CLAIM SETTLEMENT (PROVISION FOR PENAL INTEREST) 
 
i. The Company shall settle or reject a claim, as the case may be, within  30 days from 
the date of receipt of last necessary document. 
 

--- PAGE 23 ---

 
Navi Health Seasonal Byte | UIN: NAVHLIP22059V032122 
                                                                   
Navi General Insurance Limited 
Registered Office: Salarpuria Business Centre, 4th Floor, 93, 5th A Block, Koramangala Industrial Layout, Bengaluru, Karnataka – 560095 
Toll-free number: 1800 123 0004 | Website: www.naviinsurance.com | Email: insurance.help@navi.com 
CIN: U66000KA2016PLC148551 | IRDAI Registration Number: 155 
Page 23 of 32 
ii. In the case of delay in the payment of a claim, the Company shall be liable to pay 
interest to the policyholder from the date of receipt of last necessary document to the 
date of payment of claim at a rate 2% above the bank rate. 
 
iii. However, where the circumstances of a claim warrant an investigation in the opinion 
of the Company, it shall initiate and complete such investigation at the earliest, in any 
case not later than 30 days from the date of  receipt of last necessary document. In 
such cases, the Company shall settle or reject the claim within 45 days from the date 
of receipt of last necessary document. 
 
iv. In case of delay beyond stipulated 45 days, the Company shall be liable to pay interest 
to the policyholder at a rate 2% above the bank rate from the date of receipt of last 
necessary document to the date of payment of claim. 
 
“Bank rate ” shall mean the rate fixed by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) at the 
beginning of the financial year in which claim has fallen due 
 
v. Multiple Policies 
 
Indemnity Plan:  
a) In case of multiple policies taken by an insured person during a period from one or 
more insurers to indemnify treatment costs, the insured person shall have the 
right to require a settlement of his/her claim in terms of any of his/her policies. In 
all such cases the insurer chosen by the insured person shall be obliged to settle 
the claim as long as the claim is within the limits of and according to the terms of 
the chosen policy. 
 
b) Insured person having multiple policies shall also have the right to prefer  claims 
under this policy for the amounts disallowed under any other policy / policies even 
if the sum insured is not exhausted. Then the insurer shall independently settle the 
claim subject to the terms and conditions of this policy. 
 
c) If the amount to be claimed exceeds the sum insured under a single policy, the 
insured person shall have the right to choose insurer from whom he/she wants to 
claim the balance amount. 
 
d) Where an insured person has policies from more than one insurer to cover the 
same risk on indemnity basis, the insured person shall only be indemnified the 
treatment costs in accordance with the terms and conditions of the chosen policy.  
 
Benefit Plan:  
In case of multiple Navi Health Seasonal Byte policies from Us by the policyholder, We 
will accept claim under the respective policies independently.  
 
j. FRAUD 
If any claim made by the insured person, is in any respect fraudulent, or if any false 
statement, or declaration is made or used in support thereof, or if any fraudulent means or 
devices are used by the insured person or anyone acting on his/her behalf to obtain any 

--- PAGE 24 ---

 
Navi Health Seasonal Byte | UIN: NAVHLIP22059V032122 
                                                                   
Navi General Insurance Limited 
Registered Office: Salarpuria Business Centre, 4th Floor, 93, 5th A Block, Koramangala Industrial Layout, Bengaluru, Karnataka – 560095 
Toll-free number: 1800 123 0004 | Website: www.naviinsurance.com | Email: insurance.help@navi.com 
CIN: U66000KA2016PLC148551 | IRDAI Registration Number: 155 
Page 24 of 32 
benefit under this policy, all benefits under this policy and the premium paid shall be 
forfeited. 
Any amount already paid against claims made under this policy but which are found 
fraudulent later shall be repaid by all recipient(s)/policyholde r(s), who has made that 
particular claim, who shall be jointly and severally liable for such repayment to the insurer.  
For the purpose of this clause, the expression "fraud" means any of the following acts 
committed by the insured person or by his agent or the hospital/doctor/any other party 
acting on behalf of the insured person, with intent to deceive the insurer or to induce the 
insurer to issue an insurance policy: 
a) the suggestion, as a fact of that which is not true and which the insured person does 
not believe to be true; 
b) the active concealment of  a fact by the insured person having knowledge or belief of 
the fact; 
c) any other act fitted to deceive; and 
d) any such act or omission as the law specially declares to be fraudulent 
 
The Company shall not repudiate the claim and / or forfeit the policy benefits on the ground 
of Fraud, if the insured person / beneficiary can prove that the misstatement was true to the 
best of his knowledge and there was no deliberate intention to suppre ss the fact or that 
such misstatement of or suppression of material fact are within the knowledge of the 
insurer. 
 
k. TPA Related Information – (Applicable for Indemnity Plan) 
For intimation of claim, submission of claim related documents and any claim relate d query, 
You can contact TPA assigned as per zone wise and /or as selected by You and which is 
appearing on your Policy Schedule and Health Card. 
 
Region TPA Address & Contact Details 
WEST 
DADRA & NAGAR HAVELI  |  
DAMAN & DIU  | GOA  | GUJARAT  |   
MADHYA PRADESH   |  
MAHARASHTRA 
  
PARAMOUNT HEALTH SERVICES & INSURANCE 
TPA PRIVATE LIMITED 
Plot No. A-442, Road No. 28, MIDC Industrial Area, 
Wagle Estate, Ram Nagar, Near Vitthal Rukhmani 
Mandir, Thane (W), Maharashtra 400604 
Website - www.paramounttpa.com 
IRDAI Reg No: 006 
Email - navigi@paramounttpa.com 
Toll Free - 1800 2256 01 
SOUTH 
ANDAMAN & NICOBAR ISLANDS | 
ANDHRA PRADESH |  
KARNATAKA | KERALA  |  
LAKSHADWEEP   |  TAMIL NADU  |   
TELANGANA  |   PUDUCHERRY 
FAMILY HEALTH PLAN INSURANCE TPA LIMITED 
No:8-2-269/A/2-1 To 6, 2nd Floor, 
Srinilaya Cyber Spazio, Road No.2, 
Banjara Hills, Hyderabad, 
Telangana – 500034 
Website - www.fhpl.net 
IRDAI Reg No: 013 
Email -  navigi@fhpl.net 
Toll Free - 1800 599 2488  

--- PAGE 25 ---

 
Navi Health Seasonal Byte | UIN: NAVHLIP22059V032122 
                                                                   
Navi General Insurance Limited 
Registered Office: Salarpuria Business Centre, 4th Floor, 93, 5th A Block, Koramangala Industrial Layout, Bengaluru, Karnataka – 560095 
Toll-free number: 1800 123 0004 | Website: www.naviinsurance.com | Email: insurance.help@navi.com 
CIN: U66000KA2016PLC148551 | IRDAI Registration Number: 155 
Page 25 of 32 
EAST & NORTH 
ARUNACHAL PRADESH  |  ASSAM  
| BIHAR  |  CHHATTISGARH |  
JHARKHAND  |  MANIPUR | 
MEGHALAYA |  MIZORAM | 
NAGALAND  | ODISHA  | SIKKIM  | 
TRIPURA | WEST BENGAL | 
CHANDIGARH  |  DELHI |  
HARYANA | HIMACHAL PRADESH  
|  JAMMU & KASHMIR  |  PUNJAB | 
RAJASTHAN | UTTAR PRADESH |  
UTTARAKHAND 
RAKSHA HEALTH INSURANCE TPA PRIVATE 
LIMITED 
C/O Escorts Corporate Centre, 15/5, Mathura Road, 
Faridabad - 121003 Haryana 
Website - www.rakshatpa.com 
IRDAI Reg No: 015 
Email - navigi@rakshatpa.com 
Toll Free - 1800 180 1555 
 
6. REDRESSAL OF GRIEVANCE  
 
In case of any grievance, the insured person may contact the company through  
 
Website: www.naviinsurance.com 
Toll free: 1800-123-0004  
E-mail: insurance.help@navi.com 
Courier: Navi General Insurance Limited 
Salarpuria Business Centre,  
4th B Cross Road, 5th Block,  
Koramangala Industrial Layout,  
Bengaluru, Karnataka – 560095 
 
Insured person may also approach the grievance cell at any of the company’s branches with the details 
of grievance. 
If Insured person is not satisfied with the redressal of grievance through one of the above methods, 
insured person may contact the grievance officer at Manager.CustomeExperience@navi.com 
 
For updated details of grievance officer, kindly refer the link - www.naviinsurance.com/service/ 
 
For Senior Citizens, we have a special cell and our Senior Citizen customers can email us at 
seniorcare@navi.com for priority resolution 
 
If Insured person is not satisfied with the redressal of grievance through above methods, the insured 
person may also approach the office of Insurance Ombudsman of the respective area/region for redressal 
of grievance as per Insurance Ombudsman Rules 2017.   
 
Ombudsman & Addresses: Refer the link - http://ecoi.co.in/ombudsman.html 
 
S. No. CONTACT DETAILS JURISDICTION OF OFFICE 
1 AHMEDABAD  
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman. 
Jeevan Prakash Building, 6th Floor, 
Tilak Marg, Relief Road, Ahmedabad - 380 001. 
Tel.: 079 - 25501201 / 02/05/06 
Email: bimalokpal.ahmedabad@ecoi.co.in 
 
State of Gujarat and Union Territories of 
Dadra & Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu 
  

--- PAGE 26 ---

 
Navi Health Seasonal Byte | UIN: NAVHLIP22059V032122 
                                                                   
Navi General Insurance Limited 
Registered Office: Salarpuria Business Centre, 4th Floor, 93, 5th A Block, Koramangala Industrial Layout, Bengaluru, Karnataka – 560095 
Toll-free number: 1800 123 0004 | Website: www.naviinsurance.com | Email: insurance.help@navi.com 
CIN: U66000KA2016PLC148551 | IRDAI Registration Number: 155 
Page 26 of 32 
2 BENGALURU  
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 
Jeevan Soudha Building, 
PID No. 57-27-N-19, Ground Floor, 19/19,  
24th Main Road, JP Nagar, 1st Phase, 
Bengaluru – 560 078. 
Tel.: 080 - 26652048 / 26652049 
Email: bimalokpal.bengaluru@ecoi.co.in  
 
Karnataka 
 
 
 
 
 
  
3 BHOPAL 
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 
Janak Vihar Complex, 2nd Floor,  
6, Malviya Nagar, Opp. Airtel Office, 
Near New Market, Bhopal – 462 003. 
Tel.: 0755 - 2769201 / 2769202 
Fax: 0755 - 2769203 
Email: bimalokpal.bhopal@ecoi.co.in  
 
States of Madhya Pradesh and 
Chattisgarh. 
 
 
 
 
  
4 BHUBANESHWAR 
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 
62, Forest park, Bhubneshwar – 751 009. 
Tel.: 0674 - 2596461 /2596455 
Fax: 0674 - 2596429 
Email: bimalokpal.bhubaneswar@ecoi.co.in 
  
 
State of Orissa 
 
 
  
5 CHANDIGARH 
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 
S.C.O. No. 101, 102 & 103, 2nd Floor, Batra 
Building, Sector 17 - D, Chandigarh – 160 017. 
Tel.: 0172 - 2706196 / 2706468 
Fax: 0172 - 2708274 
Email: bimalokpal.chandigarh@ecoi.co.in 
  
 
States of Punjab, Haryana, Himachal 
Pradesh, Jammu & Kashmir and Union 
territory of Chandigarh. 
6 CHENNAI 
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 
Fatima Akhtar Court, 4th Floor, 453,  
Anna Salai, Teynampet, CHENNAI – 600 018. 
Tel.: 044 - 24333668 / 24335284 
Fax: 044 - 24333664 
Email: bimalokpal.chennai@ecoi.co.in 
  
 
State of Tamil Nadu and Union Territories - 
Pondicherry Town and Karaikal (which are 
part of Union Territory of Pondicherry). 
7 DELHI 
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 
2/2 A, Universal Insurance Building, 
Asaf Ali Road, New Delhi – 110 002. 
Tel.: 011 - 23239633 / 23237532 
Fax: 011 - 23230858 
Email: bimalokpal.delhi@ecoi.co.in 
  
 
State of Delhi 

--- PAGE 27 ---

 
Navi Health Seasonal Byte | UIN: NAVHLIP22059V032122 
                                                                   
Navi General Insurance Limited 
Registered Office: Salarpuria Business Centre, 4th Floor, 93, 5th A Block, Koramangala Industrial Layout, Bengaluru, Karnataka – 560095 
Toll-free number: 1800 123 0004 | Website: www.naviinsurance.com | Email: insurance.help@navi.com 
CIN: U66000KA2016PLC148551 | IRDAI Registration Number: 155 
Page 27 of 32 
8 GUWAHATI 
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 
Jeevan Nivesh, 5th Floor, 
Nr. Panbazar over bridge, S.S. Road, 
Guwahati – 781001(ASSAM). 
Tel.: 0361 - 2132204 / 2132205 
Fax: 0361 - 2732937 
Email: bimalokpal.guwahati@ecoi.co.in 
 
States of Assam, Meghalaya, Manipur, 
Mizoram, Arunachal Pradesh, Nagaland 
and Tripura. 
9 HYDERABAD 
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 
6-2-46, 1st floor, "Moin Court", 
Lane Opp. Saleem Function Palace,  
A. C. Guards, Lakdi-Ka-Pool,  
Hyderabad - 500 004. 
Tel.: 040 - 65504123 / 23312122  
Fax: 040 - 23376599 
Email: bimalokpal.hyderabad@ecoi.co.in 
 
States of Andhra Pradesh,  Telangana and 
Union Territory of Yanam - a part of the 
Union Territory of Pondicherry 
10 JAIPUR 
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 
Jeevan Nidhi – II Bldg., Gr. Floor, 
Bhawani Singh Marg, Jaipur - 302 005. 
Tel.: 0141 - 2740363 
Email: Bimalokpal.jaipur@ecoi.co.in 
 
State of Rajasthan 
11 ERNAKULAM 
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 
2nd Floor, Pulinat Bldg., 
Opp. Cochin Shipyard, M. G. Road, 
Ernakulam - 682 015. 
Tel.: 0484 - 2358759 / 2359338 
Fax: 0484 - 2359336 
Email: bimalokpal.ernakulam@ecoi.co.in 
 
Kerala, Lakshadweep, Mahe -a part of 
Pondicherry 
12 KOLKATA 
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 
Hindustan Bldg. Annexe, 4th Floor,  
4, C.R. Avenue,  
KOLKATA - 700 072.  
Tel.: 033 - 22124339 / 22124340  
Fax : 033 - 22124341 
Email: bimalokpal.kolkata@ecoi.co.in  
 
States of West Bengal, Bihar, Sikkim and 
Union Territories of Andaman and Nicobar 
Islands 
13 LUCKNOW 
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 
6th Floor, Jeevan Bhawan, Phase-II, 
Nawal Kishore Road, Hazratganj,  
Lucknow - 226 001.  
Tel.: 0522 - 2231330 / 2231331 
Fax: 0522 - 2231310 
Email: bimalokpal.lucknow@ecoi.co.in 
 
District of Uttar Pradesh:   Lalitpur, Jhansi, 
Mahoba, Hamirpur, Banda, Chitrakoot, 
Allahabad, Mirzapur, Sonbhabdra, 
Fatehpur, Pratapgarh, Jaunpur, Varansi, 
Gazipur, Jalaun, Kanpur, Lucknow, Unnao, 
Sitapur, Lakhimpur, Bahraich, Barabanki, 
Raebareli, Sravasti, Gonda, Faizabad, 
Amethi, Kaushambi, Balrampur, Basti, 

--- PAGE 28 ---

 
Navi Health Seasonal Byte | UIN: NAVHLIP22059V032122 
                                                                   
Navi General Insurance Limited 
Registered Office: Salarpuria Business Centre, 4th Floor, 93, 5th A Block, Koramangala Industrial Layout, Bengaluru, Karnataka – 560095 
Toll-free number: 1800 123 0004 | Website: www.naviinsurance.com | Email: insurance.help@navi.com 
CIN: U66000KA2016PLC148551 | IRDAI Registration Number: 155 
Page 28 of 32 
Ambedkarnagar, Sulanpur, Maharajganj, 
Santkabirnagar, Azamgarh, Kaushinagar, 
Gorkhpur, Deo ria, Mau, Chandauli, Ballia, 
Sidharathnagar. 
14 MUMBAI 
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 
3rd Floor, Jeevan Seva Annexe,  
S. V. Road, Santacruz (W), 
Mumbai - 400 054. 
Tel.: 022 - 26106552 / 26106960 
Fax: 022 - 26106052 
Email: bimalokpal.mumbai@ecoi.co.in  
 
States of Goa, Mumbai Metropolitan Region 
excluding Navi Mumbai & Thane. 
15 NOIDA 
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 
Bhagwan Sahai Palace  
4th Floor, Main Road, 
Naya Bans, Sector 15, 
Distt: Gautam Buddh Nagar, U.P-201301. 
Tel.: 0120-2514250 / 2514251 / 2514253 
Email: bimalokpal.noida@ecoi.co.in  
 
States of Uttaranchal and the following 
Districts of Uttar Pradesh:. Agra, Aligarh, 
Bagpat, Bareilly, Bijnor, Budaun, 
Bulandshehar, Etah, Kanooj, Mainpuri, 
Mathura, Meerut, Moradabad, 
Muzaffarnagar, Oraiyya, Pilibhit, Etawah, 
Farrukhabad, Firozabad, Gautam  Budh 
Nagar, Ghaziabad, Hardoi, Shahjahanpur, 
Hapur, Shamli, Rampur, Kashganj, 
Sambhal, Amroha, Hathras, 
Kanshiramnagar, Saharanpur 
16 PATNA 
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 
1st Floor, Kalpana Arcade Building, 
Bazar Samiti Road, Bahadurpur, 
Patna 800 006. 
Tel.: 0612-2680952 
Email: bimalokpal.patna@ecoi.co.in  
 
States of Bihar and Jharkhand 
17 PUNE 
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 
Jeevan Darshan Bldg., 3rd Floor, 
C.T.S. No.s. 195 to 198, 
N.C. Kelkar Road, Narayan Peth, 
Pune – 411 030. 
Tel.: 020 - 32341320 
Email: bimalokpal.pune@ecoi.co.in  
 
States of Maharashtra, Area of Navi 
Mumbai and Thane excluding Mumbai 
Metropolitan Region 
 
Grievance may also be lodged at IRDAI Integrated Grievance Management System - 
https://igms.irda.gov.in/ 
 
 
 
 
 

--- PAGE 29 ---

 
Navi Health Seasonal Byte | UIN: NAVHLIP22059V032122 
                                                                   
Navi General Insurance Limited 
Registered Office: Salarpuria Business Centre, 4th Floor, 93, 5th A Block, Koramangala Industrial Layout, Bengaluru, Karnataka – 560095 
Toll-free number: 1800 123 0004 | Website: www.naviinsurance.com | Email: insurance.help@navi.com 
CIN: U66000KA2016PLC148551 | IRDAI Registration Number: 155 
Page 29 of 32 
Annexure 1 – Non-Medical Expenses 
 
SR NO ITEMS 
LIST 1 – Non Payable Items 
1 BABY FOOD 
2 BABY UTILITES CHARGES 
3 BEAUTY SERVICES 
4 BELTS/ BRACES 
5 BUDS 
6 COLD PACK/HOT PACK 
7 CARRY BAGS 
8 EMAIL / INTERNET CHARGES 
9 FOOD CHARGES (OTHER THAN PATIENT's DIET PROVIDED BY HOSPITAL)  
10 LEGGINGS 
11 LAUNDRY CHARGES 
12 MINERAL WATER 
13 SANITARY PAD 
14 TELEPHONE CHARGES 
15 GUEST SERVICES 
16 CREPE BANDAGE 
17 DIAPER OF ANY TYPE 
18 EYELET COLLAR 
19 SLINGS 
20 BLOOD GROUPING AND CROSS MATCHING OF DONORS SAMPLES  
21 SERVICE CHARGES WHERE NURSING CHARGE ALSO CHARGED  
22 TELEVISION CHARGES 
23 SURCHARGES 
24 ATTENDANT CHARGES 
25 EXTRA DIET OF PATIENT (OTHER THAN THAT WHICH FORMS PART OF BED CHARGE)  
26 BIRTH CERTIFICATE 
27 CERTIFICATE CHARGES 
28 COURIER CHARGES 
29 CONVENYANCE CHARGES 
30 MEDICAL CERTIFICATE 
31 MEDICAL RECORDS 
32 PHOTOCOPIES CHARGES 
33 MORTUARY CHARGES 
34 WALKING AIDS CHARGES 
35 OXYGEN CYLINDER (FOR USAGE OUTSIDE THE HOSPITAL) 
36 SPACER 
37 SPIROMETRE 
38 NEBULIZER KIT 
39 STEAM INHALER 

--- PAGE 30 ---

 
Navi Health Seasonal Byte | UIN: NAVHLIP22059V032122 
                                                                   
Navi General Insurance Limited 
Registered Office: Salarpuria Business Centre, 4th Floor, 93, 5th A Block, Koramangala Industrial Layout, Bengaluru, Karnataka – 560095 
Toll-free number: 1800 123 0004 | Website: www.naviinsurance.com | Email: insurance.help@navi.com 
CIN: U66000KA2016PLC148551 | IRDAI Registration Number: 155 
Page 30 of 32 
40 ARMSLING 
41 THERMOMETER 
42 CERVICAL COLLAR 
43 SPLINT 
44 DIABETIC FOOT WEAR 
45 KNEE BRACES ( LONG / SHORT / HINGED) 
46 KNEE IMMOBILIZER / SHOULDER IMMOBILIZER 
47 LUMBO SACRAL BELT 
48 NIMBUS BED OR WATER OR AIR BED CHARGES 
49 AMBULANCE COLLAR 
50 AMBULANCE EQUIPMENT 
51 ABDOMINAL BINDER 
52 PRIVATE NURSES CHARGES - SPECIAL NURSING CHARGES 
53 SUGAR FREE TABLETS 
54 CREAMS POWDERS LOTIONS (Toileteries are not payable,only prescribed medical 
pharmaceuticals payable) 
55 ECG ELECTRODES 
56 GLOVES 
57 NEBULISATION KIT 
58 ANY KIT WITH NO DETAILS MENTIONED [DELIVERY KIT, ORTHOKIT, RECOVERY KIT, ETC] 
59 KIDNEY TRAY 
60 MASK 
61 OUNCE GLASS 
62 OXYGEN MASK 
63 PELVIC TRACTION BELT 
64 PAN CAN 
65 TROLLY COVER 
66 UROMETER, URINE JUG 
67 AMBULANCE 
68 VASOFIX SAFETY 
  
LIST II -  ITEMS THAT ARE TO BE SUBSUMED INTO ROOM CHARGES 
1 BABY CHARGES (UNLESS SPECIFIED/INDICATED) 
2 HAND WASH 
3 SHOE COVER 
4 CAPS 
5 CRADLE CHARGES 
6 COMB 
7 EAU-DE-COLOGNE / ROOM FRESHNERS 
8 FOOT COVER 
9 GOWN 
10 SLIPPERS 
11 TISSUE PAPER 

--- PAGE 31 ---

 
Navi Health Seasonal Byte | UIN: NAVHLIP22059V032122 
                                                                   
Navi General Insurance Limited 
Registered Office: Salarpuria Business Centre, 4th Floor, 93, 5th A Block, Koramangala Industrial Layout, Bengaluru, Karnataka – 560095 
Toll-free number: 1800 123 0004 | Website: www.naviinsurance.com | Email: insurance.help@navi.com 
CIN: U66000KA2016PLC148551 | IRDAI Registration Number: 155 
Page 31 of 32 
12 TOOTH PASTE 
13 TOOTH BRUSH 
14 BED PAN 
15 FACE MASK 
16 FLEXI MASK 
17 HAND HOLDER 
18 SPUTUM CUP 
19 DISINFECTANT LOTIONS 
20 LUXURY TAX 
21 HVAC 
22 HOUSE KEEPING CHARGES 
23 AIR CONDITIONER CHARGES 
24 IM IV INJECTION CHARGES 
25 CLEAN SHEET 
26 BLANKET / WARMER BLANKET 
27 ADMISSION KIT 
28 DIABETIC CHART CHARGES 
29 DOCUMENTATION CHARGES / ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES 
30 DISCHARGE PROCEDURE CHARGES 
31 DAILY CHART CHARGES 
32 ENTRANCE PASS / VISITORS PASS CHARGES 
33 EXPENSES RELATED TO PRESCRIPTION ON DISCHARGE 
34 FILE OPENING CHARGES 
35 INCIDENTAL EXPENSES / MISC. CHARGES (NOT EXPLAINED) 
36 PATIENT IDENTIFICATION BAND / NAME TAG 
37 PULSEOXYMETER CHARGES 
LIST III – ITEMS THAT ARE TO BE SUBSUMED INTO PROCEDURE CHARGES  
1 HAIR REMOVAL CREAM 
2 DISPOSABLE RAZOR CHARGES (FOR SITE PREPARATIONS) 
3 EYE PAD 
4 EYE SHEILD 
5 CAMERA COVER 
6 DVD, CD CHARGES 
7 GAUSE SOFT 
8 GAUZE 
9 WARD AND THEATRE BOOKING CHARGES 
10 ARTHROSCOPY AND ENDOSCOPY INSTRUMENTS 
11 MICROSCOPE COVER 
12 SURGICAL BLADES, HARMONIC SCALPEL, SHAVER 
13 SURGICAL DRILL 
14 EYE KIT 
15 EYE DRAPE 
16 X-RAY FILM 

--- PAGE 32 ---

 
Navi Health Seasonal Byte | UIN: NAVHLIP22059V032122 
                                                                   
Navi General Insurance Limited 
Registered Office: Salarpuria Business Centre, 4th Floor, 93, 5th A Block, Koramangala Industrial Layout, Bengaluru, Karnataka – 560095 
Toll-free number: 1800 123 0004 | Website: www.naviinsurance.com | Email: insurance.help@navi.com 
CIN: U66000KA2016PLC148551 | IRDAI Registration Number: 155 
Page 32 of 32 
17 BOYLES APPARATUS CHARGES 
18 COTTON 
19 COTTON BANDAGE 
20  SURGICAL TAPE 
21 APRON 
22 TORNIQUET 
23 ORTHOBUNDLE, GYNAEC BUNDLE 
LIST  IV – ITEMS THAT ARE TO BE SUBSUMED INTO COSTS OF TREATMENT  
1 ADMISSION / REGISTRATION CHARGES 
2 HOSPITALISATION FOR EVALUATION / DIAGNOSTIC PURPOSE 
3 URINE CONTAINER 
4 BLOOD RESERVATION CHARGES AND ANTE NATAL BOOKING CHARGES  
5 BIPAP MACHINE 
6 CPAP / CAPD EQUIPMENTS 
7 INFUSION PUMP – COST 
8 HYDROGEN PEROXIDE \ SPIRIT \ DISINFECTANTS ETC 
9 NUTRITION PLANNING CHARGES - DIETICIAN CHARGES - DIET CHARGES 
10 HIV KIT 
11 ANTISEPTIC MOUTHWASH 
12 LOZENGES 
13 MOUTH PAINT 
14 VACCINATION CHARGES 
15 ALCOHOL SWABES 
16 SCRUB SOLUTION/STERILLIUM 
17 Glucometer & Strips 
18 URINE BAG