--- PAGE 1 ---

  
Navi Health | UIN: NAVHLIP22133V012122 | Policy Wording  
Navi General Insurance Limited 
Registered Office: Salarpuria Business Centre, 4th Floor, 93, 5th A Block, Koramangala Industrial Layout, Bengaluru, Karnataka – 560095 
Toll-free number: 1800 123 0004 | Website: www.naviinsurance.com | Email: insurance.help@navi.com 
CIN: U66000KA2016PLC148551 | IRDAI Registration Num ber: 155 
 Page 1 of 35  
NAVI HEALTH - POLICY WORDINGS 
 
 
1. PREAMBLE 
 
This Policy has been issued to You by Navi General Insurance Ltd (hereinafter referred to as Company), on 
the basis of Disclosure to information norm including the information disclosed by You in the Proposal Form 
together with any statement, report or other document  submitted for this Policy or its preceding 
Policy/Policies of which this is a Renewal and is subject to receipt of the requisite premium . The terms set 
out in such Proposal Form, this Policy and its Schedule will form the basis of this contract of insurance, and 
for any claim or benefit under this Policy. 
  
2. DEFINITIONS 
 
2.1  STANDARD DEFINITIONS 
 
2.1.1 Accident: means sudden, unforeseen and involuntary event caused by external, visible and violent 
means. 
 
2.1.2 Any One Illness: means continuous period of Illness and includes relapse within 45 days from the 
date of last consultation with the Hospital/Nursing Home where treatment was taken. 
 
2.1.3 AYUSH Hospital means a healthcare facility wherein medical / surgical / para – surgical treatment 
procedures and interventions are carried out by AYUSH Medical Practitioner(s) comprising of any 
of the following  
a) Central or State Government AYUSH Hospital; or 
b) Teaching Hospital attached to AYUSH College recognized by the Central Government / Central 
Council of Indian Medicine / Central Council for Homeopathy; or 
c) AYUSH Hospital, standalone or co – located with in-patient healthcare facility of any recognised 
system of medicine, registered with the local authorities, wherever applicable, and is under the 
supervision of a qualified registered AYUSH Medical Practitioner and must comply with all the 
following criterion: 
i. Having at least 5 in-patient beds. 
ii. Having qualified AYUSH Medical Practitioner in charge round the clock. 
iii. Having dedicated AYUSH therapy sections as required and / or has equipped operation 
theatre where Surgical Procedures are to be carried out. 
iv. Maintaining daily records of the patients and making them accessible to the insurance 
Company’s authorised representative. 
 
2.1.4 Cashless Facility: means a facility extended by the Insurer to the Insured where the payments, of 
the costs of treatment undergone by the Insured in accordance with the Policy terms and conditions, 
are directly made to the Network Provider by the Insurer to the extent pre-authorization is approved. 
 

--- PAGE 2 ---

  
Navi Health | UIN: NAVHLIP22133V012122 | Policy Wording  
Navi General Insurance Limited 
Registered Office: Salarpuria Business Centre, 4th Floor, 93, 5th A Block, Koramangala Industrial Layout, Bengaluru, Karnataka – 560095 
Toll-free number: 1800 123 0004 | Website: www.naviinsurance.com | Email: insurance.help@navi.com 
CIN: U66000KA2016PLC148551 | IRDAI Registration Num ber: 155 
 Page 2 of 35  
2.1.5 Condition Precedent: means a Policy term or condition upon which the Insurer`s liability under the 
Policy is conditional upon. 
 
2.1.6 Congenital Anomaly - means a condition which is present since birth, and which is abnormal with 
reference to form, structure or position.  
(a) Internal Congenita l Anomaly – Congenital Anomaly  which is not in the visible and accessible 
parts of the body. 
(b) External Congenital Anomaly - Congenital Anomaly which is in the visible and accessible parts 
of the body. 
 
2.1.7 Cumulative (No Claim) Bonus means any increase or addition in the Sum Insured granted by the 
Insurer without an associated increase in premium. 
 
2.1.8 Day Care Centre : means any institution established for Day Care Treatment  of Illness and / or 
injuries or a medical setup with a Hospital and which has been registered with the local authorities, 
wherever applicable, and is under supervision of a registered and qualified Medical Practitioner  
AND must comply with all minimum criterion as under- 
(a) has qualified nursing staff under its employment. 
(b) has qualified Medical Practitioner/s in charge.  
(c) has fully equipped operation theatre of its own where Surgical Procedures are carried out; 
(d) maintains daily records of patients and will make these accessible to the insurance Company’s 
authorized personnel. 
 
2.1.9 Day Care Treatment: means medical treatment, and/or Surgical Procedure which is: 
(a) undertaken under General or Local Anaesthesia in a Hospital / Day Care Centre in less than 24 
hrs because of technological advancement, and 
(b) which would have otherwise required Hospitalization of more than 24 hours. 
Treatment normally taken on an out-patient basis is not included in the scope of this definition.  
 
2.1.10 Dental Treatment  - means a treatment related to teeth or structures supporting teeth including 
examinations, fillings (where appropriate), crowns, extractions and Surgery. 
 
2.1.11 Disclosure to i nformation norm : The Policy shall be void and all premium paid thereon shall be 
forfeited to the Company in the event of misrepresentation, mis-description or non-disclosure of any 
Material Fact. 
 
2.1.12 Domiciliary Hospitalisation : means medical treatment for an Illness/disease/Injury which in the 
normal course would require care and treatment at a Hospital but is actually taken while confined 
at home under any of the following circumstances: 
(a) the condition of the patient is such that he/she is not in a condition to be removed to a Hospital, 
or 
(b) the patient takes treatment at home on account of non-availability of room in a Hospital.  
 

--- PAGE 3 ---

  
Navi Health | UIN: NAVHLIP22133V012122 | Policy Wording  
Navi General Insurance Limited 
Registered Office: Salarpuria Business Centre, 4th Floor, 93, 5th A Block, Koramangala Industrial Layout, Bengaluru, Karnataka – 560095 
Toll-free number: 1800 123 0004 | Website: www.naviinsurance.com | Email: insurance.help@navi.com 
CIN: U66000KA2016PLC148551 | IRDAI Registration Num ber: 155 
 Page 3 of 35  
2.1.13 Emergency Care : means management for an Illness or Injury which results in symptoms which 
occur suddenly and unexpectedly and requires immediate care by a Medical Practitioner to prevent 
death or serious long-term impairment of the Insured Person's health.  
 
2.1.14 Grace Period - means the specified period of time immediately following the premium due date during 
which a payment can be made to renew or continue a Policy in force without loss of continuity 
benefits such as waiting periods and coverage of Pre-existing Diseases. Coverage is not available 
for the period for which no premium is received.  
 
2.1.15 Hospital - means any institution established for in-patient care and Day Care Treatment of Illness 
and/or injuries and which has been registered as a Hospital with the local authorities under Clinical 
Establishment (Registration and Regulation) Act2010 or under enactments specified under the 
Schedule of Section 56 (1) of the said act or complies with all minimum criteria as under:  
(a) has qualified nursing staff under its employment round the clock. 
(b) has at least 10 in-patient beds, in towns having a population of less than 10,00,000 and at least 
15 in-patient beds in all other places. 
(c) has qualified Medical Practitioner(s) in charge round the clock.  
(d) has a fully equipped operation theatre of its own where Surgical Procedures are carried out. 
(e) maintains daily records of patients and makes these accessible to the insurance Company’s 
authorized personnel.  
 
2.1.16 Hospitalisation - means admission in a Hospital for a minimum of 24 consecutive “In patient Care” 
hours except for specified procedures / treatments, where such admission could be for a period of 
less than 24 consecutive hours. 
 
2.1.17 Illness: means a sickness or a disease or pathological condition leading to the impairment of normal 
physiological function and requires medical treatment. 
a) Acute Condition - is a disease, Illness or Injury that is likely to respond quickly to treatment 
which aims to return the person to his or her state of health immedia tely before suffering the 
disease/Illness/Injury which leads to full recovery. 
b) Chronic Condition  - is defined as a disease, Illness, or Injury that has one or more of the 
following characteristics:   
i. it needs ongoing or long -term monitoring through consultations, examinations, check -
ups, and / or tests 
ii. it needs ongoing or long-term control or relief of symptoms 
iii. it requires rehabilitation for the patient or for the patient to be specially trained to cop e 
with it 
iv. it continues indefinitely 
v. it recurs or is likely to recur 
 
2.1.18 Injury: means Accidental physical bodily harm excluding Illness or disease solely and directly caused 
by external, violent, visible and evident means which is verified and certified by a Medical 
Practitioner. 
 

--- PAGE 4 ---

  
Navi Health | UIN: NAVHLIP22133V012122 | Policy Wording  
Navi General Insurance Limited 
Registered Office: Salarpuria Business Centre, 4th Floor, 93, 5th A Block, Koramangala Industrial Layout, Bengaluru, Karnataka – 560095 
Toll-free number: 1800 123 0004 | Website: www.naviinsurance.com | Email: insurance.help@navi.com 
CIN: U66000KA2016PLC148551 | IRDAI Registration Num ber: 155 
 Page 4 of 35  
2.1.19 Inpatient Care - means treatment for which the Insured Person has to stay in a Hospital for more 
than 24 hours for a covered event. 
 
2.1.20 Intensive Care Unit – means an identified section, ward or wing of a Hospital which is under the 
constant supervision of a dedicated Medical Practitioner(s), and which is specially equipped for the 
continuous monitoring and treatment of patients who are in a critical condition or require life support 
facilities and where the level of care and supervision is considerably more sophisticated and 
intensive than in the ordinary and other wards.  
 
2.1.21 ICU Charges – means the amount charged by a Hospital towards ICU expenses which shall include 
the expenses for ICU bed, general medical support services provided to any ICU patient including 
monitoring devices, critical care nursing and intensivist charges.  
 
2.1.22 Maternity Expenses: means  
(a) medical treatment expenses traceable to childbirth (includ ing complicated deliveries and 
caesarean sections incurred during Hospitalization)  
(b) expenses towards lawful medical termination of pregnancy during the Policy Period.;                           
 
2.1.23 Medical Advice : means any consultation or advice from a Medical Practitioner  including the 
issuance of any prescription or follow-up prescription. 
 
2.1.24 Medical Expenses : means those expenses that an Insured Person  has necessarily and actually 
incurred for medical treatment on account of Illness or Accident on the advice of a Medical 
Practitioner, as long as these are no more than would have been payable if the Insured Person had 
not been Insured and no more than ot her Hospitals or doctors in the same locality would have 
charged for the same medical treatment. 
 
2.1.25 Medical Practitioner: means a person who holds a valid registration from the Medical Council of 
any State or Medical Council of India or Council for Indian Medicine or for Homeopathy set up by the 
Government of India or a State Government and is thereby entitled to practice medicine within its 
jurisdiction; and is acting within its scope and jurisdiction of license  and who is not the Insured 
himself or herself or Insured’s close Family member.  
 
2.1.26 Medically Necessary Treatment: means any treatment, tests, medication, or stay in Hospital or part 
of a stay in Hospital which: 
(a) is required for the medical management of the Illness or Injury suffered by the Insured. 
(b) must not exceed the level of care necessary to provide safe, adequate and appropriate medical 
care in scope, duration or intensity. 
(c) must have been prescribed by a Medical Practitioner. 
(d) must conform to the professional standards wi dely accepted in international medical practice 
or by the medical community in India. 
 

--- PAGE 5 ---

  
Navi Health | UIN: NAVHLIP22133V012122 | Policy Wording  
Navi General Insurance Limited 
Registered Office: Salarpuria Business Centre, 4th Floor, 93, 5th A Block, Koramangala Industrial Layout, Bengaluru, Karnataka – 560095 
Toll-free number: 1800 123 0004 | Website: www.naviinsurance.com | Email: insurance.help@navi.com 
CIN: U66000KA2016PLC148551 | IRDAI Registration Num ber: 155 
 Page 5 of 35  
2.1.27 Migration: means, the right accorded to health insurance Policy Holder s (including all members 
under Family cover), to transfer the credit gained for pre -existing condit ions and time bound 
exclusions, with the same Insurer. 
 
2.1.28 Network Provider: means Hospitals or health care providers enlisted by an Insurer, TPA or jointly 
by an Insurer and TPA to provide medical services to an Insured by a Cashless Facility. 
 
2.1.29 Newborn Baby: means baby born during the Policy Period and is aged up to 90 days. 
 
2.1.30 Non-Network Provider: means any Hospital, Day Care Centre or other provider that is not part of 
Our network. 
                                                                
2.1.31 OPD Treatment: means the one in which the Insured visits a clinic/ Hospital or associated facility 
like a consultation room for Diagnosis and treatment based on the advice of a Medical Practitioner. 
However, the Insured is not admitted for Day Care or In-Patient Treatment.   
 
2.1.32 Portability: means the right accorded to an individual health insurance Policy Holder (including all 
members under Family cover), to transfer the credit gained for pre -existing conditions and time 
bound exclusions, from one Insurer to another Insurer. 
 
2.1.33 Pre-existing Disease: means any condition, ailment, Injury or disease: 
(a) that is/are diagnosed by a physician within 48 months prior to the effective date of  the Policy 
issued by the Insurer or its reinstatement; or  
(b) for which Medical Advice  or treatment was recommended by, or received from, a  physician 
within 48 months prior to th e effective date of the Policy issued by the Insurer or its 
reinstatement. 
 
2.1.34 Pre-Hospitalisation Medical Expenses : means Medical Expenses  incurred during pre -defined 
number of days preceding the Hospitalization of the Insured Person, provided that: 
(a) Such Medical Expenses  are incurred for the same condition for which the Insured Person ’s 
Hospitalisation was required, and  
(b) The In -patient Hospitalization claim for such Hospitalization is admissible by the Insurance 
Company. 
 
2.1.35 Post Hospitalisation Medical Expenses : means Medical Expenses  incurred during pre -defined 
number of days immediately after the Insured Person is discharged from the Hospital provided that: 
(a) Such Medical Expenses  are for the same condition for which the Insured P erson’s 
Hospitalisation was required, and  
(b) The inpatient Hospitalisation claim for such Hospitalisation is admissible by the insurance 
Company. 
 
2.1.36 Qualified Nurse: means a person who holds a valid registration from the Nursing Council of India 
or the Nursing Council of any state in India. 
 

--- PAGE 6 ---

  
Navi Health | UIN: NAVHLIP22133V012122 | Policy Wording  
Navi General Insurance Limited 
Registered Office: Salarpuria Business Centre, 4th Floor, 93, 5th A Block, Koramangala Industrial Layout, Bengaluru, Karnataka – 560095 
Toll-free number: 1800 123 0004 | Website: www.naviinsurance.com | Email: insurance.help@navi.com 
CIN: U66000KA2016PLC148551 | IRDAI Registration Num ber: 155 
 Page 6 of 35  
2.1.37 Reasonable & Customary Charges : means the charges for services or supplies, which are the 
standard charges for a specific provider and consistent with the prevailing charges in the 
geographical area for identical or similar services, taking into account the nature of Illness/ Injury 
involved. 
 
2.1.38 Renewal: means the terms on which the contract of insurance can be renewed on mutual consent 
with a provision of Grace Period for treating the Renewal continuous for the purpose  of gaining 
credit for Pre-existing Diseases, time-bound exclusions and for all waiting periods. 
 
2.1.39 Room Rent: means the amount charged by a Hospital towards room and boarding expenses and 
shall include the Associated Medical Expenses. 
 
2.1.40 Surgery or Surgical Procedure: means manual and/or operative procedure(s) required for treatment 
of an Illness or Injury, correction of deformities and defects, Diagnosis and cure of diseases, relief 
from suffering or prolongation of life, performed in a Hospital or Day Care Centre  by a Medical 
Practitioner. 
 
2.1.41 Unproven/Experimental Treatment : means the treatment, including drug experimental therapy 
which is not based on established medical practice in India, is treatment experimental or unproven. 
 
2.2 SPECIFIC DEFINITIONS 
 
2.2.1 Age: means completed age in years as at the Policy Commencement Date. 
 
2.2.2 Air Ambulance means a special aircraft operated by a licenced/authorised Service Provider and 
equipped for taking sick or injured people having Emergency Medical Condition to Hospital 
 
2.2.3 Associated Medical Expenses : means Medical Expenses  such as professional fees, OT charges, 
procedure charges, etc., which vary based on the room category occupi ed by the Insured whilst 
undergoing treatment in a Hospital. Such Associated Medical Expenses  do not include cost of 
pharmacy and consumables, implants medical devices and diagnostics . 
 
2.2.4 Base Sum Insured : means the amount stated in the Policy Schedule  for Hospitalization benefit 
(section 3.1 of the Policy).. 
 
2.2.5 Dependent Child: means biological or legally adopted son or daughter of the Insured, whose Age is 
less than or equal to 30 years, is financially dependent on the Insured with no source of income and 
has not established his/her own independent household. 
 
2.2.6 Diagnosis: means conclusion drawn by a Medical Practitioner , supported by acceptable clinical, 
radiological, histological, histo-pathological, and laboratory evidence wherever applicable. 
 

--- PAGE 7 ---

  
Navi Health | UIN: NAVHLIP22133V012122 | Policy Wording  
Navi General Insurance Limited 
Registered Office: Salarpuria Business Centre, 4th Floor, 93, 5th A Block, Koramangala Industrial Layout, Bengaluru, Karnataka – 560095 
Toll-free number: 1800 123 0004 | Website: www.naviinsurance.com | Email: insurance.help@navi.com 
CIN: U66000KA2016PLC148551 | IRDAI Registration Num ber: 155 
 Page 7 of 35  
2.2.7 Emergency Medical Condition - means medical condition manifesting itself by acute symptoms of 
sufficient severity (including s evere pain) of such a nature that the absence of immediate medical 
attention could reasonably be expected to result in-  
(a) placing the health of the Insured in serious jeopardy, including  the health of the unborn child 
where the Insured is a pregnant woman; or 
(b) serious impairment of bodily functions; or 
(c) serious dysfunction of any organ or part of a body 
 
2.2.8 Family: means the persons named in the Policy Schedule who are the Policy Holder’s legal spouse, 
Dependent Children, parents/ parents-in-Law. 
 
2.2.9 Family Floater: means a Policy described as such in the Policy Schedule where the Insured and the 
Insured’s Family named in the Policy Schedule  are covered under the Policy as at the Policy 
Commencement Date. The Sum Insured for a Family Floater is the amount specified in the Policy 
Schedule which represents the Insurer’s maximum liability for all claims made by the Insured and/or 
Insured’s Family during each Policy Year.  
 
2.2.10 Non-Floater:  means a Policy where the Insured and the Insured’s Family members named in the 
Policy Schedule  are covered under the Policy as at the Policy Commencement Date. The Sum 
Insured for Non-Floater is the amount shown in the Policy Schedule against each individual Insured 
Person which also represents the Insurer’s maximum liability for that Insured Person.  
 
2.2.11 Harvesting: means a Surgical Procedure to remove organs or tissues from a donor (live), for the 
purpose of organ transplantation. 
 
2.2.12 Insured Person  (Insured)/Policy Holder/You/Your: means the person(s) named in the Policy 
Schedule who is covered under this Policy, for whom the insurance is proposed and in respect of 
whom the applicable premium has been received 
 
2.2.13 IRDAI:– means the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India. 
 
2.2.14 Material Fact: - means all relevant information sought by the Company in the Proposal Form and 
other connected documents to enable it to take informed decision in the context of underwriting the 
risk. 
 
2.2.15 Medical Diagnostic Laboratory: means a clinical establishment , registered as per applicable law  
where pathological, bacteriological, genetic, radiological, chemical, biological investigations or other 
diagnostic or investigative services, are usually carried on with the aid of laboratory or other medical 
equipment. 
 
2.2.16 Modern Treatment: means the following procedures: 
(a) Uterine Artery Embolization and HIFU (High intensity focused ultrasound)  
(b) Balloon Sinuplasty 
(c) Deep Brain Stimulation 

--- PAGE 8 ---

  
Navi Health | UIN: NAVHLIP22133V012122 | Policy Wording  
Navi General Insurance Limited 
Registered Office: Salarpuria Business Centre, 4th Floor, 93, 5th A Block, Koramangala Industrial Layout, Bengaluru, Karnataka – 560095 
Toll-free number: 1800 123 0004 | Website: www.naviinsurance.com | Email: insurance.help@navi.com 
CIN: U66000KA2016PLC148551 | IRDAI Registration Num ber: 155 
 Page 8 of 35  
(d) Oral Chemotherapy 
(e) Immunotherapy - Monoclonal Antibody to be given as injection 
(f) Intra-vitreal injections 
(g) Robotic Surgeries 
(h) Stereotactic radio Surgeries 
(i) Bronchial Thermoplasty 
(j) Vaporisation of the Prostrate (Green Laser Treatment or Holmium Laser Treatment 
(k) IONM - (Intra Operative Neuro Monitoring) 
(l) Stem cell therapy: Hematopoietic stem cells for bone marrow transplant for haematological 
conditions to be covered. 
 
2.2.17 Nominee: means the person named in the Policy Schedule, Policy certificate and/or endorsement (if 
any) who is nominated by the Policy Holder/Insured Person, to receive the benefits under this Policy 
in accordance with the terms of the Policy, if the Insured Person is deceased. 
 
2.2.18 Policy: means the Proposal Form , the Policy Schedule , annexures, insuring clauses that are 
appearing in each applicable coverage, definitions, exclusions, conditions and other terms 
contained herein and any endorsement attaching to or forming part hereof, either at inception or 
during the Policy Period. 
 
2.2.19 Policy Period: means the period commencing from the Policy Commencement Date  and time as 
specified in the Policy Schedule  and terminating either at midnight on the Policy End Date as 
specified in the Policy Schedule or the date of cancellation of the Policy, whichever is earlier.  
 
2.2.20 Policy Schedule: means schedule attached to and forming part of this Policy mentioning the details 
of the Insured Person(s), the Sum Insured, the Policy Period and the limits, and conditions to which 
the benefits under the Policy are subject to, including any annexures and/or endorsements , as 
amended from time to time.  
 
2.2.21 Policy Year : means a period of twelve consecutive months commencing from the Policy 
Commencement Date and such twelve consecutive months thereafter but not beyond the Policy 
Period.  
  
2.2.22 Proposal Form: means a form to be filled in by the prospect in written or electronic or any other 
format as approved by the IRDAI, for furnishing all material information as required by th e Insurer, 
in order to enable the Insurer to take an informed decision in the context of underwriting the risk 
and in the event of acceptance of the risk, to determine the rates, benefits, terms and conditions of 
the cover to be granted. 
  
2.2.23 Road Ambulance – means a motor vehicle operated by a licenced/authorised Service Provider and 
equipped for taking sick or injured people having Emergency Medical Condition to Hospital.  
 
2.2.24 Sum Insured: means the Base Sum Insured and Cumulative Bonus amount wherever applicable as 
specified in the Policy Schedule.  

--- PAGE 9 ---

  
Navi Health | UIN: NAVHLIP22133V012122 | Policy Wording  
Navi General Insurance Limited 
Registered Office: Salarpuria Business Centre, 4th Floor, 93, 5th A Block, Koramangala Industrial Layout, Bengaluru, Karnataka – 560095 
Toll-free number: 1800 123 0004 | Website: www.naviinsurance.com | Email: insurance.help@navi.com 
CIN: U66000KA2016PLC148551 | IRDAI Registration Num ber: 155 
 Page 9 of 35  
2.2.25 Service Provider: means any person, clinical establishment, organization or institution that has been 
empanelled with Us to provide service related to Outpatient benefit, wellness benefit, Road 
Ambulance and Air Ambulance benefit. 
 
2.2.26 TPA: means any entity who is registered under the IRDAI (Third Party Administrators - Health 
Services) Regulations, 2016 notified by the IRDAI, and is engaged, for a fee or remuneration by an 
insurance Company, for the purposes of providing health services. 
 
2.2.27 We/ Our/ Us / Insurer/ Company: means Navi General Insurance Limited. 
 
 
3. SCOPE OF COVER 
 
We will cover the Insured Person s under this Policy up to the Sum Insured  specified against each 
coverage in the Policy Schedule for Reasonable & Customary Charges incurred for Medically Necessary 
Treatment during the Policy Year. Each coverage is subject to the terms, conditions and exclusions of 
this Policy. 
 
Section We will cover: Provided that (the coverage is subject to): 
 
3.1 
 
 
 
Hospitalization: 
 
Medical and Surgery expense incurred in single or 
shared room accommodation for: 
 
a) Inpatient Care: 
a.1. Room Rent, boarding & nursing 
a.2. Intensive Care Unit (ICU) 
a.3. Medical Practitioner  including Surgeon, 
Anesthetist, Specialist, Physiotherapist's 
fees 
a.4. Anesthesia, blood, oxygen, operation 
theatre charges, surgical appliances, 
medicine and drugs, cost towards 
diagnostic tests and imaging modalities 
  
b) Other Medical Expenses 
b.1. Dental Treatmen t necessitated due to 
Illness or Injury 
b.2. Plastic Surgery necessitated due to Illness 
or Injury 
b.3. Modern Treatment 
b.4. Mental Illness treatment 
b.5. Day Care Treatment  for all eligible 
procedures  
 
Proportionate deduction from the covered  
Associated Medical Expenses (in addition to 
difference in the Room Rent) shall be applicable if 
Your occupancy is in a room category which is 
higher than a single room occupancy, during Your 
Hospitalization, and such Hospital adopts 
differential billing based on room categor y in 
relation to, including but not limited to,  Medical 
Practitioner fees including surgeon, anesthetist, 
specialist, operation theatre charges and nursing  
expenses     
 
3.2 
 
Pre-Hospitalization Medical Expenses:  
 
• Such Medical Expenses  are incurred for the 
same medical condition for which the Insured 
Person’s Hospitalization is required under 
Section 3.1 
• We have accepted a claim under Section 3.1.  

--- PAGE 10 ---

  
Navi Health | UIN: NAVHLIP22133V012122 | Policy Wording  
Navi General Insurance Limited 
Registered Office: Salarpuria Business Centre, 4th Floor, 93, 5th A Block, Koramangala Industrial Layout, Bengaluru, Karnataka – 560095 
Toll-free number: 1800 123 0004 | Website: www.naviinsurance.com | Email: insurance.help@navi.com 
CIN: U66000KA2016PLC148551 | IRDAI Registration Num ber: 155 
 Page 10 of 35  
Section We will cover: Provided that (the coverage is subject to): 
• Only such Medical Expenses that are incurred 
after the Policy commencement date of the 
first Policy with Us are covered,  
• The amount paid under this coverage will 
reduce the Sum Insured. 
 
3.3 
 
Post-Hospitalization Medical Expenses:  
 
• Such Medical Expenses  are incurred for the 
same medical condition for which the Insured 
Person’s Hospitalization is required under 
Section 3.1. 
• We have accepted a claim under Section 3.1. 
• Only such Medical Expenses that are incurred 
before the termination of the Policy are 
covered.   
• The amount paid under this coverage will 
reduce the Sum Insured. 
 
3.4 
 
Daily cash for shared room occupancy: We will pay 
a fixed daily cash amount of Rs. 1,000/ - for each 
continuous and completed period of 24 hours of 
shared room occupancy during a covered 
Hospitalization in Our Network Provider Hospital. 
  
 
• The amount paid under this coverage will not 
reduce the Sum Insured 
• Coverage is payable for shared room 
occupancy during Hospitalization as covered 
under Section 3.1 
• This benefit is payable up to maximum of 
seven days 
 
3.5 
 
Emergency Road Transportation:  expenses 
incurred towards the transfer of the Insured Person 
to the Hospital in a Road Ambulance for Emergency 
Medical Condition 
 
• Only Road A mbulance operated by a 
registered ambulance Service Provider  is 
covered.  
• The expenses are incurred for Insured Person's 
road transfer between:  (a) Place of Illness or 
Accident, and a Hospital; (b) Referral Hospital 
and a referred Hospital 
• We have accepted  a claim under Section 3.1, 
for such Emergency Medical Condition. 
• The amount paid under this coverage will 
reduce the Sum Insured  
 
3.6 
 
AYUSH (Ayurveda, Yoga and Naturopathy, Unani, 
Siddha and Homeopathy): Medical Expenses  
necessarily incurred towards Inpatient Care  
treatment received at any AYUSH Hospitals 
 
• Inpatient Care  treatment must be taken at a 
AYUSH Hospital 
• The Inpatient Care treatment was rendered by 
a Medical Practitioner  holding a valid 
registration from the applicable council of 
Indian medicine or homoeopathy, as the case 
may be. 
• Pre-Hospitalization Medical Expenses  and 
Post Hospitalization Medical Expenses are not 
covered. 
• The amount paid under this coverage will 
reduce the Sum Insured. 
 
3.7 
 
Domiciliary Hospitalization:  Medical Expenses  
necessarily incurred on Domiciliary Hospitalization 
of the Insured Person due to an Illness/Injury, for at 
least 3 consecutive days while confined at home. 
 
 
• Medical Practitioner certifies in writing that the 
Insured Person  cannot be transferred to a 
Hospital due to his/her medical condition, or 
the Insured Person  satisfies Us about non -
availability of room in a Hospital. 

--- PAGE 11 ---

  
Navi Health | UIN: NAVHLIP22133V012122 | Policy Wording  
Navi General Insurance Limited 
Registered Office: Salarpuria Business Centre, 4th Floor, 93, 5th A Block, Koramangala Industrial Layout, Bengaluru, Karnataka – 560095 
Toll-free number: 1800 123 0004 | Website: www.naviinsurance.com | Email: insurance.help@navi.com 
CIN: U66000KA2016PLC148551 | IRDAI Registration Num ber: 155 
 Page 11 of 35  
Section We will cover: Provided that (the coverage is subject to): 
• Records of the treatment administered are 
duly signed by the treating Medical 
Practitioner and maintained for each day of 
the Domiciliary Hospitalization. 
• The amount paid under this coverage will 
reduce the Sum Insured 
 
3.8 
 
Organ Donor Expenses: incurred necessarily 
towards living donor’s Hospitalization for Harvesting 
the organ donated, where the Insured Person  is 
recipient. 
 
• The organ donor is any person whose organ 
has been made available in accordance and in 
compliance with The Trans plantation of 
Human Organs (Amendment) Act , 1994 and 
relevant rules and amendments thereof. 
• The organ donated is for the use of the Insured 
Person. 
• We have accepted a claim for the Insured 
Person under Section 3.1, Hospitalization. 
• The amount paid under this coverage will 
reduce the Sum Insured 
 
3.9 
 
Online doctor consultations:  with a Medical 
Practitioner empaneled with Us as Our Service 
Provider for Diagnosis, treatment and prevention of 
Illness/ Injury, counseling, health education, medicine 
prescription  
 
• The Medical Practitioner  will use his/her 
professional discretion to gather the type and 
extent of patient information 
(history/examination findings/ investigation 
reports/past records etc.) required to be able to 
exercise proper clinical judgement 
• Online doctor consultation shall be offered in 
accordance with the applicable Telemedicine 
Practice Guidelines issued by competent 
authority of the Government of India. 
• We do not assume any liability towards any 
loss or damage arising out of or in relation to 
any opinion, advice, prescription, quality of 
service, errors of omission/commission and 
representations made by the treating Medical 
Practitioner. 
• We may facilitate the provision of such online 
consultation, but the Insured Person is free to 
choose whether or not to obtain such online 
consultation, and if obtained, it is the Insured 
Person’s sole and absolute discretion to follow 
such suggestion for any advice related to 
his/her health. 
• We should receive the request from You for 
online doctor consultation through Our mobile 
application  
 
3.10 
 
Cumulative (No Claim) Bonus: to increase the Base 
Sum Insured  upon completion of each claim free 
Policy Year  by a specified percentage of the Base 
Sum Insured, subject to a maximum percentage as 
specified in the Policy Schedule . 
 
In the event of a claim reducing Base Sum Insured , 
No Claim Bonus will be reduced at th e same rate at 
which it has accrued. 
 
• If the Policy Period  is more than a year, No 
Claim Bonus that has accrued for the previous 
Policy Year will be credited at the end of such 
Policy Year  and will be available for claims 
made in the subsequent Policy Year 
• No Claim Bonus accrued during the claim free 
Policy Year  will only be available to those 
Insured Person s who were Insured in such 

--- PAGE 12 ---

  
Navi Health | UIN: NAVHLIP22133V012122 | Policy Wording  
Navi General Insurance Limited 
Registered Office: Salarpuria Business Centre, 4th Floor, 93, 5th A Block, Koramangala Industrial Layout, Bengaluru, Karnataka – 560095 
Toll-free number: 1800 123 0004 | Website: www.naviinsurance.com | Email: insurance.help@navi.com 
CIN: U66000KA2016PLC148551 | IRDAI Registration Num ber: 155 
 Page 12 of 35  
Section We will cover: Provided that (the coverage is subject to): 
 
The No Claim Bonus is provisional and is subject to 
revision if a claim is made in respect of the expiring 
Policy Year, which is notified after the acceptance of 
Renewal premium. Such awarded No Claim Bonus 
shall be wi thdrawn only in respect of the expiring 
Policy Year in which the claim was admitted. 
 
The coverage is available only if the Policy is 
Renewed with Us 
 
If the Sum Insured has been increased/reduced at the 
time of Renewal, the applicable No Claim Bonus 
shall be increased/reduced in the same proportion to 
the Base Sum Insured 
claim free Policy Year  and continue to be 
Insured Persons in the subsequent Policy Year 
• In case of Family Floater  Policy, No Claim 
Bonus will accrue only if no claims have been 
made in respect of all Insured Person(s) in the 
expiring Policy Year. 
• If the Insured Person s in their respective 
expiring Policies are covered on an individual / 
Non-Floater basis and there is an accumulated 
No Claim Bonus for each Insured Person under 
the expiring Policy, and such expiring Policy 
has been Renewed with Us on a Family Floater 
Policy basis then the No Claim Bonu s to be 
carried forward for credit in such Policy upon 
Renewal shall be the lowest of the No Claim 
Bonus accrued among all the Insured Persons 
• If the Insured Persons in the expiring Policy are 
covered on a Family Floater Policy basis and 
such Insured Perso ns Renew their expiring 
Policy with Us by splitting the Sum Insured in 
to two or more Family Floater  / Non-Floater/ 
Individual Policies, then the No Claim Bonus of 
the expiring Policy shall be apportioned to 
such Policies upon Renewal, in the proportion 
of the Sum Insured of each Renewed Policy 
• In case of Family Floater  Policies, children 
attaining exit age at the time of Renewal will 
be moved out of the Family Floater Policy into 
an Individual/ Non-Floater Policy. However, all 
continuity benefits for such Insured Person on 
the Policy will remain intact. No Claim Bonus 
earned on the Policy will stay with the Insured 
Person(s) covered under the original Policy.  
 
3.11 
 
Additional Sum Insured  for Inpatient Care  
treatment of Accidental Injury: that was sustained 
by the Insured Person  solely and directly due to a 
road traffic Accident by100% percentage of the 
Base Sum Insured. 
 
• The Injury sustained following a road traffic 
Accident is substantiated by police 
investigation report and Hospital records. 
• The additional Sum Insured  under this 
coverage is available for utilization only once 
during the Policy Year after exhaustion of the 
Sum Insured 
• The coverage is payable only for In -Patient 
Care in the Hospital  
 
3.12 
 
Automatic restoration of Base Sum Insured : up to 
100% for the number of times as specified in the 
Policy Schedule, during a Policy Year. 
 
• Automatic restoration is applicable to the Base 
Sum Insured only. 
• Such restored Base Sum Insured  can be 
utilized for all subsequent claims during the 
Policy Year. 
 
3.13 
 
Maternity Expenses: Necessarily incurred up to Rs. 
30,000/- towards the delivery of the Insured 
Person’s child and/or lawful termination of 
pregnancy up to a maximum of 2 deliveries or 
lawful medical termination of pregnancies during 
 
Maternity Expenses 
• Medical termination of pregnancy is carried 
out in accordance and in compliance with The 
Medical Termination of Pregnancy Act, 1971 
and amendments thereof 

--- PAGE 13 ---

  
Navi Health | UIN: NAVHLIP22133V012122 | Policy Wording  
Navi General Insurance Limited 
Registered Office: Salarpuria Business Centre, 4th Floor, 93, 5th A Block, Koramangala Industrial Layout, Bengaluru, Karnataka – 560095 
Toll-free number: 1800 123 0004 | Website: www.naviinsurance.com | Email: insurance.help@navi.com 
CIN: U66000KA2016PLC148551 | IRDAI Registration Num ber: 155 
 Page 13 of 35  
Section We will cover: Provided that (the coverage is subject to): 
the lifetime of an Insured Person 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Newborn Baby  benefit: for t he Medical Expenses  
necessarily incurred  up to Rs. 10,000 /-for the 
Inpatient Care of a Newborn Baby undergone up to 
90 days after birth.  
 
 
  
• The Sum Insured available under this coverage 
is in addition to the Base Sum Insured  of the 
Policy and hence claim under this coverage 
will not reduce the Base Sum Insured 
• For coverage to become payable, the female 
Insured Person who is above 17 years of age , 
must be covered for a continuous period of 36 
months under the Policy offering coverage of 
Maternity Expenses,  
• If this coverage is available and in-force for the 
Insured Person , then maternity exclusion - 
4.1.18 shall stand deleted. 
 
Newborn Baby benefit 
• Claim payment under the Newborn Baby  
benefit is subject to admissibility of claim by Us 
under Section 3.13, Maternity Expenses. 
• The amount paid under this coverage will not 
reduce the Base Sum Insured, or any sub-limit 
specified for Maternity Expenses.  
Section We will cover: Provided that (the coverage is subject to): 
 
3.14 
 
Non payable expenses: Incurred towards utilization 
of the Non payable items that are listed under  List I 
of Annexure I under the Policy or given on Our 
website www.naviinsurance.com  
 
• The items are prescribed by treating Medical 
Practitioner and billed for during Insured 
Person’s Hospitalization covered under 
Section 3.1, Hospitalization. 
• We have accepted a claim under Section 3.1, 
Hospitalization 
• Claim under this benefit will reduce the Sum 
Insured  
 
3.15 
 
Prolonged Hospitalization benefit: by paying lump 
sum amount of Rs. 20,000/ - if You are Hospitalized 
in Our Network Provider  Hospital for a minimum 
period of 10 consecutive days due to any Illness/ 
Injury that is covered under the Policy. 
  
 
• This coverage is payable only once during 
each Policy Year  for every Family member 
covered under the Policy on Non-Floater basis. 
• In case of Floater Policy, this coverage is 
payable only once for all Family members 
during each Policy Year 
• Claim under this coverage will not reduce the 
Sum Insured. 
• We have accepted the claim under Section 3.1, 
Hospitalization  
 
3.16 
 
Air Ambulance : cost up to Rs. 5 Lakh incurred 
towards the transfer of the Insured Person  having 
Emergency Medical Condition  to the nearest 
Hospital with adequate emergency facilities, in an 
Air Ambulance, for Emergency Care. 
   
 
• Our maximum liability under this coverage for 
any and all claims arising during the Policy 
Year is restricted to the Sum Insured specified 
against this coverage in the Policy Schedule 
• The Emergency Care  is required for a life-
threatening Emergency Medical Condition s 
which require rapid Ambulance transportation 
that that ground transportation cannot 
provide. 
• This cover is limited to transportation from the 
area of emergency to nearest Hospital having 
Emergency Care. 

--- PAGE 14 ---

  
Navi Health | UIN: NAVHLIP22133V012122 | Policy Wording  
Navi General Insurance Limited 
Registered Office: Salarpuria Business Centre, 4th Floor, 93, 5th A Block, Koramangala Industrial Layout, Bengaluru, Karnataka – 560095 
Toll-free number: 1800 123 0004 | Website: www.naviinsurance.com | Email: insurance.help@navi.com 
CIN: U66000KA2016PLC148551 | IRDAI Registration Num ber: 155 
 Page 14 of 35  
Section We will cover: Provided that (the coverage is subject to): 
• Air Ambulance transportation is certified by a 
Medical Practitioner  and We have accepted 
the claim under Section 3.1, Hospitalization. 
• The Air Ambulance  transportation ex penses 
incurred within the geographical scope of 
India. 
• The Sum Insured available under this coverage 
is in addition to the Base Sum Insured  of the 
Policy and hence claim under this coverage 
will not reduce the Base Sum Insured 
  
 
3.17 
 
Wellness benefits: 
a) Complementary Preventive Health Checkup:  
We will provide a complementary preventive 
health checkup to all the Insured Persons over 
17 years of Age once every Policy Year. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
b) Health Status Reward: We will provide an 
additional 5% discount in the premium upon 
Renewal if the results of the Insured Person’s 
laboratory tests, meets following criteria: (i)Total 
Cholesterol- Less than 200mg/dL; 
(ii)Triglycerides- Less than 150mg/dL; 
(iii)Glycated Hemoglobin (HbA1c) - Less than  
5.7%; (iv)Hemoglobin - More than 13g/dL for 
Men and More than 12g/dL for Women 
 
c) Fitness Status Reward: We will provide an 
additional discount of 5% o n the Renewal 
premium upon Insured Person walking an 
average 4000 steps per day  for minimum 250 
days in a previous Policy Year, and thereafter , 
1% incremental discount for every 1000 
footsteps on average. 
 
 
Complementary Preventive Health Checkup 
• We should receive the request to avail 
complementary preventive health checkup 
from the Insured Person  through Our mobile 
application.  
• Complementary preventive health checkup 
shall be arranged by Us through Our 
empaneled network of Service Provider s 
(diagnostic service facilities) 
• Complementary preventive health checkup 
may include but not limited to Complete Blood 
Count (CBC), Lipid Profile, Glycated 
Hemoglobin (HbA1c), Kidney Profile, Thyroid 
Stimulating Hormone (TSH)  
• Complementary preventive health checkup is 
voluntary program. By opting to participate in 
this program, You agree to share the results of 
Your health checkup with Us. 
• We do not assume any liability towards any 
loss or damage arising out of or in relation to 
any opinion, advice, quality of service, errors of 
omission/commission and representations 
made by the third-party Service Provider. 
 
 
Health Status Reward 
• The Healthy Status Reward is offered on every 
Renewal, subject to You undergoing the 
complementary preventive health checkup in 
the previous Policy Year and the results of such 
health checkup meet s the prescribed criteria 
as mentioned under the benefit 
 
 
 
Fitness Status Reward 
• Your Fitness gadget (Fitbit, Apple health, 
Google fit etc.) is authenticated and 
synchronized with Our mobile application. 
• You are enrolled in this program after 
commencement of this Policy, through Our 
mobile application.  

--- PAGE 15 ---

  
Navi Health | UIN: NAVHLIP22133V012122 | Policy Wording  
Navi General Insurance Limited 
Registered Office: Salarpuria Business Centre, 4th Floor, 93, 5th A Block, Koramangala Industrial Layout, Bengaluru, Karnataka – 560095 
Toll-free number: 1800 123 0004 | Website: www.naviinsurance.com | Email: insurance.help@navi.com 
CIN: U66000KA2016PLC148551 | IRDAI Registration Num ber: 155 
 Page 15 of 35  
Section We will cover: Provided that (the coverage is subject to): 
 • The maximum discount offered under this 
reward is 10% 
• Insured person above 17years of age are 
allowed to participate 
• To avail this discount, Insured Person should 
walk for a minimum of 500 and 750 days if 
Policy term is of 2 and 3 years respectively 
 
 
3.18 
 
Outpatient Treatment Benefit:  that covers 
consultation fees incurred by the Insured Person for 
a consultation with a Medical Practitioner and the 
expenses incurred towards a diagnostic test /s, as 
prescribed in writing by the Medical Practitioner up 
to Rs. 5,000/ - for each Insured Person  covered by 
individual/ Non-Floater Policy and up to Rs. 10,000/- 
for Family covered by Family Floater Policy . 
 
• Outpatient Treatment Benefit coverage is 
offered by Us through Our Service Provider s 
(Consultants and Diagnostic service facilities) 
on cashless basis. 
• We receive the request in advance from the 
Insured Person through Our mobile application 
to avail the coverage. 
• If this coverage is extended then Standard 
exclusion section 4.1 (except 4.1.10, 4.1.11) & 
Specific exclusion section 4.2 (except  4.2.6, 
4.2.11, 4.2.12) shall stand deleted. 
• The claim under this coverage will not reduce 
the Sum Insured 
 
 
 
4. EXCLUSIONS 
 
We will not make payment for a claim in respect of any Insured Person  in any way resulting from or 
attributable to any of the following unless specifically covered elsewhere in this Policy: 
 
4.1 STANDARD EXCLUSIONS 
 
4.1.1 Pre-existing Diseases – Code – Excl01  
(a) Expenses related to the treatment of a Pre-existing Disease (PED) and its direct complications 
shall be excluded until the expiry of  specified number of months (in the Policy Schedule ) of 
continuous coverage after the date of inception of the first Policy with Insurer. 
(b) In case of enhancement of Sum Insured the exclusion shall apply afresh to the extent of Sum 
Insured increase. 
(c) If the Insured Person is continuously covered without any break as defined under the Portability 
norms of the extant IRDAI (Health Insurance) Regulations, then waiting period for the same 
would be reduced to the extent of prior coverage. 
(d) Coverage under the Policy after the expiry of  specified number of months (under the Policy 
Schedule) for any Pre-existing Disease  is subject to the same being declared at the time of 
application and accepted by Insurer. 
 
4.1.2 Specified Disease / procedure waiting period – Code – Excl02  
(a) Expenses related to the treatment of the listed conditions; Surgeries/treatments shall be 
excluded until the expiry specified number of months (under the Policy Schedule) of continuous 

--- PAGE 16 ---

  
Navi Health | UIN: NAVHLIP22133V012122 | Policy Wording  
Navi General Insurance Limited 
Registered Office: Salarpuria Business Centre, 4th Floor, 93, 5th A Block, Koramangala Industrial Layout, Bengaluru, Karnataka – 560095 
Toll-free number: 1800 123 0004 | Website: www.naviinsurance.com | Email: insurance.help@navi.com 
CIN: U66000KA2016PLC148551 | IRDAI Registration Num ber: 155 
 Page 16 of 35  
coverage after the date of inception of the first Policy with Us. This exclusion shall not be 
applicable for claims arising due to an Accident.  
(b) In case of enhancement of Sum Insured the exclusion shall apply afresh to the extent of Sum 
Insured increase. 
(c) If any of the specified disease/procedure falls under the waiting period specified for Pre-existing 
Diseases, then the longer of the two waiting periods shall apply. 
(d) The waiting period for listed conditions shall apply even if contracted after the Policy or declared 
and accepted without a specific exclusion. 
(e) If the Insured Person is continuously covered without any break as defined under the applicable 
norms on Portability stipulated by IRDAI, then waiting period for the same would be reduced to 
the extent of prior coverage. 
(f) List of specific diseases/procedures are mentioned below – 
 
Ear Nose Throat 
• Sinusitis  
• Chronic Suppurative Otitis Media 
(CSOM) 
• Tonsillectomy 
• Adenoidectomy 
• Mastoidectomy 
• Tympanoplasty 
• Surgery for Deviated Nasal Septum 
• Surgery for turbinate/Concha 
• Any other benign ear, nose and throat 
disorder or Surgery 
 
 
Gastrointestinal 
• Calculus Diseases of Gall Bladder including 
Cholecystectomy. 
• All types of Surgery of Hernia 
• Fissure/Fistula in anus, Haemorrhoids, 
Pilonidal Sinus 
• Ulcer of Stomach & Duodenum 
• Gastroesophageal Reflux Disorder (GRD) 
• Perianal / Perineal Abscess 
• Rectal Prolapse 
 
Urogenital  
• Calculus of Urinary system (Kidney 
Stone/Urinary Bladder/Ureteric Stone) 
• Any Surgery of the genitourinary system 
unless necessitated by malignancy. 
• Benign Hyperplasia of Prostate 
• Surgery for Hydrocele/Rectocele 
 
 
Eye 
• Cataract 
• Surgical Management of Glaucoma 
• Retinopathy 
 
Gynaecological 
• Cysts, polyps  
• Any type of Breast lumps (unless 
malignant) 
• Polycystic Ovarian Disease (PCOD) 
• Fibroids (Fibromyoma) 
• Myomectomy for fibroids 
• Prolapse of Uterus unless necessitated 
by malignancy. 
• Adenomyosis 
• Endometriosis 
 
Orthopaedic 
• Non-Infectious Arthritis 
• Gout and Rheumatism 
• Osteoarthritis and Osteoporosis 
• Ligament, Tendon & Meniscal Tear (other 
than caused by Accident) 
• Spondylitis/Spondylosis/Spondylolisthesis 
• Surgery for Prolapsed intervertebral disc 
(other than caused by Accident) 
• Joint Replacement Surgeries (other than 
caused by Accident) 

--- PAGE 17 ---

  
Navi Health | UIN: NAVHLIP22133V012122 | Policy Wording  
Navi General Insurance Limited 
Registered Office: Salarpuria Business Centre, 4th Floor, 93, 5th A Block, Koramangala Industrial Layout, Bengaluru, Karnataka – 560095 
Toll-free number: 1800 123 0004 | Website: www.naviinsurance.com | Email: insurance.help@navi.com 
CIN: U66000KA2016PLC148551 | IRDAI Registration Num ber: 155 
 Page 17 of 35  
 
 
 
4.1.3 30 - day Waiting Period – Code – Excl03  
(a) Expenses related to the treatment of any Illness within 30 days from the first Policy 
commencement date shall be excluded except claims arising due to an Accident, provided 
the same are covered. 
(b) This exclusion shall not, however, apply if the Insured Person has Continuous Coverage for 
more than twelve months. 
(c) The within referred waiting period is made applicable to the enhanced Sum Insured in the 
event of granting higher Sum Insured subsequently. 
 
4.1.4 Investigation & Evaluation – Code – Excl04  
(a) Expenses related to any admission primarily for diagnostics and evaluation purposes only 
are excluded. 
(b) Any diagnostic expenses which are not related or not incidental to the current Diagnosis 
and treatment are excluded. 
 
4.1.5 Rest Cure, Rehabilitation and Respite Care – Excl05  
(a) Expenses related to any admission primarily for enforced bed rest and not for receiving 
treatment. This also includes: 
i. Custodial care either at home or in a nursing facility for personal care such as help with 
activities of daily living such as bathing, dressing, moving around either by skilled nurses 
or assistant or non-skilled persons. 
ii. Any services for people who are terminally ill to address physical, social, emotional and 
spiritual needs. 
 
4.1.6 Obesity / Weight Control – Code – Excl06  
 Expenses related to the surgical treatment of obesity that does not fulfil all the below conditions:  
1. Surgery to be conducted is upon the advice of the doctor 
2. The Surgery/Procedure conducted should be supported by clinical protocols 
3. The member has to be 18 years of Age or older and 
4. Body Mass Index (BMI); 
(a) greater than or equal to 40 or 
• Menorrhagia and Dysfunctional Uterine 
Bleeding (DUB) 
• Dilatation & Curettage (D & C) 
• Hysterectomy unless due to malignancy 
 
 
Others 
• Varicose veins and Varicose ulcers 
 
General  
(Applicable to organ systems/organs/disciplines 
whether or not described above) 
• Any type of cysts / Nodules / Polyps / 
Internal tumours / Skin tumours / Lump / 
growth 
 

--- PAGE 18 ---

  
Navi Health | UIN: NAVHLIP22133V012122 | Policy Wording  
Navi General Insurance Limited 
Registered Office: Salarpuria Business Centre, 4th Floor, 93, 5th A Block, Koramangala Industrial Layout, Bengaluru, Karnataka – 560095 
Toll-free number: 1800 123 0004 | Website: www.naviinsurance.com | Email: insurance.help@navi.com 
CIN: U66000KA2016PLC148551 | IRDAI Registration Num ber: 155 
 Page 18 of 35  
(b) greater than or equal to 35 in conjunction with any of the following severe co -morbidities 
following failure of less invasive methods of weight loss: 
i. Obesity-related cardiomyopathy 
ii. Coronary heart disease 
iii. Severe Sleep Apnoea 
iv. Uncontrolled Type2 Diabetes 
 
4.1.7 Change of Gender Treatments – Code – Excl07  
Expenses related to any treatment, including surgical management, to change characteristics 
of the body to those of the opposite sex. 
 
4.1.8 Cosmetic or Plastic Surgery – Code – Excl08  
Expenses for cosmetic or plastic Surgery or any treatment to change appearance unless for 
reconstruction following an Accident, Burn(s) or Cancer or as part of Medically Necessary 
Treatment to remove a direct and immediate health risk to the Insured. For this to be considered 
a medical necessity, it must be certified by the attending Medical Practitioner. 
 
4.1.9 Hazardous or Adventure Sports – Code – Excl09  
Expenses related to any treatment necessitated due to participation as a professional in 
hazardous or adventure sports, including but not limited to, para -jumping, rock climbing, 
mountaineering, rafting, motor racing, horse racing or scuba diving, hand gliding, sky diving, 
deep-sea diving. 
 
4.1.10 Breach of Law – Code – Excl10 – 
Expenses for treatment directly arising from or consequent upon any Insured Person  
committing or attempting to commit a breach of law with criminal intent.  
 
4.1.11 Excluded Providers: Code- Excl11  
Expenses incurred towards treatment in any Hospital or by any Medical Practitioner  or any 
other provider specifically excluded by the Insurer and disclosed in its  website / notified to the 
Policy Holders are not admissible. However, in case of life-threatening situations or following 
an Accident, expenses up to the stage of stabilization are payable but not the complete claim.  
 
4.1.12 Treatment for, Alcoholism, drug or substance abuse or any  addictive condition and 
consequences thereof. Code- Excl12 
 
4.1.13 Treatments received in heath hydro’s, nature cure clinics, spas or similar establishments or 
private beds registered as a nursing home attached to such establishments or where admission 
is arranged wholly or partly for domestic reasons. Code- Excl13 
 
4.1.14 Dietary supplements and substances that can be purchased without prescription, including but 
not limited to Vitamins, minerals and organic substances unless prescribed by a Medical 
Practitioner as part of Hospitalization claim or day care procedure . Code- Excl14 
 

--- PAGE 19 ---

  
Navi Health | UIN: NAVHLIP22133V012122 | Policy Wording  
Navi General Insurance Limited 
Registered Office: Salarpuria Business Centre, 4th Floor, 93, 5th A Block, Koramangala Industrial Layout, Bengaluru, Karnataka – 560095 
Toll-free number: 1800 123 0004 | Website: www.naviinsurance.com | Email: insurance.help@navi.com 
CIN: U66000KA2016PLC148551 | IRDAI Registration Num ber: 155 
 Page 19 of 35  
4.1.15 Refractive Error – Code- Excl15  
Expenses related to the treatment for correction of eyesight due to refractive error less than 7.5 
dioptres. 
 
4.1.16 Unproven Treatments – Code – Excl16  
Expenses related to any Unproven Treatment , services and supplies for or in connection with 
any treatment. Unproven Treatment s are treatments, procedures or supplies that lack 
significant medical documentation to support their  effectiveness. 
 
4.1.17 Sterility and Infertility – Code – Excl17 – 
Expenses related to sterility and infertility. This includes:  
(a) Any type of contraception, sterilization; (b) Assisted Reproduction services including 
artificial insemination and advanced reproductive technolo gies such as IVF, ZIFT, GIFT, ICSI ; 
(c) Gestational Surrogacy; (d) Reversal of sterilization 
4.1.18 Maternity – Code – Excl18 -  
(a) Medical treatment expenses traceable to childbirth (including complicated deliveries and 
caesarean sections incurred during Hospitalization) except ectopic pregnancy. 
(b) Expenses towards miscarriage (unless due to an Accident) and lawful medical 
termination of pregnancy during the Policy Period. 
 
4.2       SPECIFIC EXCLUSIONS 
 
4.2.1 Biological, Chemical & Nuclear Attack or Weapons - Treatment costs caused by or contributed to 
or arising from or from any other cause or event contributing concurrently or in any other 
sequence to the loss, claim or expenses in relation to the use of nuclear weapons/materials, 
radioactive material, nuclear waste, nuclear fuel, chemical weapons/ materials or biological 
weapons/ materials. 
(a) Nuclear attack or weapons means the use of any nuclear weapon or device or waste or 
combustion of nuclear fuel or the emission, discharge, dispersal, release or escape of fissile/ 
fusion material emitting a level of radioactivity capable of causing any Illness, incapacitating 
disablement or death. 
(b) Chemical attack or weapons means the emission, discharge, dispersal, release or escape of any 
solid, liquid or gaseous chemical compound which, when suitably distributed, is capable of 
causing any Illness, incapacitating disablement or death. 
(c) Biological attack or weapons means the emission, discharge, dispersal, release or escape of any 
pathogenic (disease producing) micro-organisms and/or biologically produced toxins (including 
genetically modified organisms and chemically synthesized toxins) which are capable of 
causing any Illness, incapacitating disablement or death. 
 
4.2.2 War - Treatment related to any condition resulting from, or as a consequence of War, invasion, act 
of foreign enemy, civil war, rebellion, revolution, insurrection, mutiny, military or usurped power, 
seizure, capture, arrests, restraints and determinant of all kinds.   
 

--- PAGE 20 ---

  
Navi Health | UIN: NAVHLIP22133V012122 | Policy Wording  
Navi General Insurance Limited 
Registered Office: Salarpuria Business Centre, 4th Floor, 93, 5th A Block, Koramangala Industrial Layout, Bengaluru, Karnataka – 560095 
Toll-free number: 1800 123 0004 | Website: www.naviinsurance.com | Email: insurance.help@navi.com 
CIN: U66000KA2016PLC148551 | IRDAI Registration Num ber: 155 
 Page 20 of 35  
4.2.3 External Congenital Anomaly  – Expenses incurred towards  screening, counselling and treatment 
related to External Congenital Anomalies. 
 
4.2.4 Outpatient ( OPD) Treatment – Expenses incurred for treatment taken on Outpatient care basis 
unless specifically covered and mentioned in the Policy Schedule by Us. 
 
4.2.5 Eyesight, Hearing Aids & External prosthesis –  
(a) Treatment related to routine eyesight checking or hearing tests including optometric therapy.  
(b) Cost of hearing aids / Cochlear Implants, Spectacles or Contact Lenses. 
(c) Cost of ambulatory devices or equipment - walkers, crutches, belts, collars, caps, splints, slings, 
braces, stockings of any kind, blood sugar test strips, artificial limb and medical equipment 
which is subsequently used at home (except when used intra-operatively). 
 
4.2.6 Medically Necessary Expenses – Cost of any treatment or part of a treatment that is not 
reasonable and medically necessary and drugs or treatments which are not supported by a 
prescription from Medical Practitioner. 
 
4.2.7 Non-Medical Expenses – Expenses incurred for utilization of non-medical expense items that are 
listed under Annexure I (given on the website www.naviinsurance.com) unless specifically covered 
and mentioned in the Policy Schedule by Us. 
 
4.2.8 Preventive Vaccinations  - Expenses incurred towards any treatment related to preventive care, 
vaccination including inoculation and immunizations (except in case of post -bite vaccination 
treatment) unless certified and recommended by the attending Medical Practitioner as part of in -
patient treatment as a direct consequence of an otherwise covered claim. 
   
4.2.9 Self-inflicted injuries or attempted suicide  - Expenses for treatment resulting from self-inflicted 
Injury or suicide, attempted suicide while sane or insane. 
 
4.2.10 Treatment outside geographical limit  – Expenses for treatment taken outside the geographical 
limits of India. 
 
4.2.11 Treatment by a Medical Practitioner  outside discipline  - Expenses for treatment rendered by 
persons not registered as Medical Practitioner or from a Medical Practitioner practising outside the 
discipline that he/she is licensed for. 
 
4.2.12 Un-recognized Medical Diagnostic Laboratory (or Pathological Laboratory)- Expenses for 
services provided at diagnostic laboratory that is not registered under The Clinical Establishments 
(Registration and Regulation) Act, 2010, Clinical Establishments (Central Government) Rules, 
2012, Clinical Establishments (Central Government) Amendment Rules, 2018 or any other similar 
act, statute or regulations and amendments thereof enacted or adopted by the Central and/ or 
State Government and Union Territories or does not operate or follow the minimum standards as 
prescribed under the aforementioned legislations  
 

--- PAGE 21 ---

  
Navi Health | UIN: NAVHLIP22133V012122 | Policy Wording  
Navi General Insurance Limited 
Registered Office: Salarpuria Business Centre, 4th Floor, 93, 5th A Block, Koramangala Industrial Layout, Bengaluru, Karnataka – 560095 
Toll-free number: 1800 123 0004 | Website: www.naviinsurance.com | Email: insurance.help@navi.com 
CIN: U66000KA2016PLC148551 | IRDAI Registration Num ber: 155 
 Page 21 of 35  
4.2.13 Time bound Exclusions  – Expenses incurred for any disease/ Illness/ Injury having specific time 
bound exclusion(s) applied by Us and mentioned in the Policy Schedule  and is accepted by the 
Insured Person. 
4.2.14 Permanent Exclusions – Expenses incurred for any disease which is permanently excluded and 
specified in the Policy Schedule and accepted by the Insured Person.  
 
5.   GENERAL TERMS & CLAUSES 
 
5.1 STANDARD GENERAL TERMS & CLAUSES 
 
5.1.1 Disclosure of Information 
The Policy shall be void and all premium paid thereon shall be forfeited to the Company in the event 
of misrepresentation, mis-description or non-disclosure of any Material Fact by the Policy Holder. 
 
5.1.2 Condition Precedent to Admission of Liability 
The terms and conditions of the Policy must be fulfilled by the Insured Person for the Company to 
make any payment for claim(s) arising under the Policy.   
     
5.1.3 Complete Discharge 
Any payment to the Policy Holder , Insured Person or his/ her Nominees or his/ her legal 
representative or to the Hospital/Nursing Home or Assignee, as the case may be, for any benefit 
under the Policy shall in all cases be a valid discharge towards payment of claim by the Company 
to the extent of that amount for the particular claim. 
 
5.1.4 Multiple Policies 
(a) In case of multiple policies taken by an Insured during a period from  one or more Insurers to 
indemnify treatment costs, the Insured Person  shall have the right to require a settlement of 
his/her claim in terms of any of his/her policies. In all such cases the Insurer chosen by the Insured 
Person shall be obliged to settle the claim as long as the claim is within the limits of and 
according to the terms of the chosen Policy. 
(b) Insured Person having multiple policies shall also have the right to prefer claims under this Policy 
for the amounts disallowed under any other Policy / policies even if the Sum Insured  is not 
exhausted. Then the Insurer shall independently settle the claim subject to the terms and  
conditions of this Policy. 
(c) If the amount to be claimed exceeds the Sum Insured under a single Policy, the Insured Person 
shall have the right to choose Insurer from whom he/she wants to claim the balance amount. 
(d) Where an Insured Person  has policies from more than one Insurer to cover the same risk on 
indemnity basis, the Insured Person shall only be indemnified the treatment costs in accordance 
with the terms and conditions of the chosen Policy. 
 
5.1.5 Fraud 
If any claim made by the Insured Person, is in any respect fraudulent, or if any false statement, or 
declaration is made or used in support thereof, or if any fraudulent means or devices are used by 
the Insured Person or anyone acting on his/her behalf to obtain any benefit under this Policy, all 
benefits under this Policy and the premium paid shall be forfeited. 
 
Any amount already paid against claims  made under this Policy but which are found fraudulent 
later shall be repaid by all  recipient(s)/Policy Holders(s),who has made the particular claim , who 
shall be jointly and severally liable for such repayment to the Insurer.  

--- PAGE 22 ---

  
Navi Health | UIN: NAVHLIP22133V012122 | Policy Wording  
Navi General Insurance Limited 
Registered Office: Salarpuria Business Centre, 4th Floor, 93, 5th A Block, Koramangala Industrial Layout, Bengaluru, Karnataka – 560095 
Toll-free number: 1800 123 0004 | Website: www.naviinsurance.com | Email: insurance.help@navi.com 
CIN: U66000KA2016PLC148551 | IRDAI Registration Num ber: 155 
 Page 22 of 35  
 
For the purpose of  this clause, the expression "fraud" means any of the following acts committed 
by the Insured Person or by his agent or the Hospital/doctor/any other party acting on behalf of the 
Insured Person , with intent to deceive the Insurer or to induce the Insurer to issue an insurance 
Policy: 
a) the suggestion, as a fact of that which is not true and which the Insured Person does not believe 
to be true; 
b) the active concealment of a fact by the Insured Person having knowledge or belief of the fact; 
c) any other act fitted to deceive; and 
d) any such act or omission as the law specially declares to be fraudulent 
The Company shall not repudiate the claim and/ or forfeit the Policy benefits on the ground of Fraud, 
if the Insured Person  / beneficiary can prove that the misstatement was true to the best of his 
knowledge and there was no deliberate intention to suppress the fact or that such misstatement of 
or suppression of Material Fact is within the knowledge of the Insurer.   
 
5.1.6 Cancellation 
a) The Policy Holder may cancel this Policy by giving 15 days’ written notice and in such an event, 
the Company shall refund premium for the unexpired Policy Period  as per the rates detailed 
below. 
 
Cancellation grid for Annual Premium option 
Period on Risk Policy Period 1 Year  Policy Period 2 Year  Policy Period 3 Year 
Within 15 Days Free look period cancellation 
Exceeding 15 days but less than or 
equal to 1 month 75% 87.5% 90% 
Exceeding 1 months but less than 
or equal to 3 months 50% 75% 87.5% 
Exceeding 3 months but less than 
or equal to 6 months 25% 62.5% 75% 
Exceeding 6 months but less than 
or equal to 12 months Nil 50% 60% 
Exceeding 12 months but less than 
or equal to 15 months  
  
25% 50% 
Exceeding 15 months but less than 
or equal to 18 months 12% 25% 
Exceeding 18 months but less than 
or equal to 24 months  Nil 12% 
Exceeding 24 months but less than 
or equal to 27 months 
  
Nil 
Exceeding 27 months but less than 
or equal to 30 months Nil 
Exceeding 30 months but less than 
or equal to 36 months Nil 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   

--- PAGE 23 ---

  
Navi Health | UIN: NAVHLIP22133V012122 | Policy Wording  
Navi General Insurance Limited 
Registered Office: Salarpuria Business Centre, 4th Floor, 93, 5th A Block, Koramangala Industrial Layout, Bengaluru, Karnataka – 560095 
Toll-free number: 1800 123 0004 | Website: www.naviinsurance.com | Email: insurance.help@navi.com 
CIN: U66000KA2016PLC148551 | IRDAI Registration Num ber: 155 
 Page 23 of 35  
Cancellation grid for Instalment Premium option  
Period on Risk (From Last 
instalment paid date) 
% of Quarterly 
Premium 
% of Half Yearly 
Premium  
Up to 15 days from 1st Instalment 
Date Free look period cancellation 
 
Exceeding 15 days but less than or 
equal to 1 month 50% 62.5% 
 
Exceeding 1 month but less than or 
equal to 2 months 16.7% 33.3% 
 
Exceeding 2 months but less than 
or equal to 3 months Nil 25% 
 
Exceeding 3 months but less than 
or equal to 4 months 
  
8% 
 
Exceeding 4 months but less than 
or equal to 5 months 4% 
 
Exceeding 5 months but less than 
or equal to 6 months Nil 
 
 
Note- For monthly premium payment frequency, no refund shall be applicable for cancellation of 
the Policy. Free look period cancellation is applicable only in case of first time health insurance Policy 
customers. In case of Renewal Policy, please read the Period on Risk- “Exceeding 15 days but less 
than or equal to 1 month” as “Within 1 month” 
Notwithstanding anything contained herein or otherwise, no refunds of premium shall be made in 
respect of cancellation where, any claim has been admitted or has been lodged or any benefit has 
been availed by the Insured Person under the Policy. 
 
b) The Company may cancel the Policy at any time on grounds of misrepresentation, non -
disclosure of Material Facts, fraud by the Insured Person, by giving 15 days’ written notice. There 
would be no refund of premium on cancellation on grounds of misrepresentation, non-disclosure 
of Material Facts or Fraud. 
   
5.1.7 Migration: 
The Insured Person  will have the option to migrate the Policy to other health insurance 
products/plans offered by the Company by applying for Migration of the Policy at least 30 days 
before the Policy Renewal date as per IRDAI guidelines on Migration. If such person is presently 
covered and has been continuously covered without any lapses under any health insurance 
product/plan offered by the Company, the Insured Person  will get accrued continuity benefits in 
waiting periods as per IRDAI guidelines on Migration.  
For Detailed Guidelines on Migration, kindly refer the link www.naviinsurance.com 
 
5.1.8 Portability 
The Insured Person  will have the option to port the Policy to other Insurers by applying to such 
Insurer to port the entire Policy along with all the members of the Family, if any, at least 45 days 
before, but not earlier than 60 days from the Policy Renewal date as per IRDAI guidelines related 
to probability. If such person is pr esently covered and has been continuously covered without any 
lapses under any health insurance Policy with an Indian General/Health Insurer, the proposed 
Insured Person will get accrued continuity benefits in waiting periods as per IRDAI guidelines on 
probability.    
For Detailed Guidelines on Portability, kindly refer the link www.naviinsurance.com 
 
 

--- PAGE 24 ---

  
Navi Health | UIN: NAVHLIP22133V012122 | Policy Wording  
Navi General Insurance Limited 
Registered Office: Salarpuria Business Centre, 4th Floor, 93, 5th A Block, Koramangala Industrial Layout, Bengaluru, Karnataka – 560095 
Toll-free number: 1800 123 0004 | Website: www.naviinsurance.com | Email: insurance.help@navi.com 
CIN: U66000KA2016PLC148551 | IRDAI Registration Num ber: 155 
 Page 24 of 35  
5.1.9 Renewal of Policy 
The Policy shall ordinarily be renewable except on grounds of fraud, misrepresentation by the 
Insured Person.   
(a) The Company shall endeavour to give notice for Renewal. However, the Company is not under 
obligation to give any notice for Renewal.  
(b) Renewal shall not be denied on the ground that the Insured had made a claim or claims in the 
preceding Policy Years.  
(c) Request for Renewal along with requisite premium shall be received by the Company before 
the end of the Policy Period.  
(d) At the end of the Policy Period, the Policy shall terminate and can be renewed within the Grace 
Period of 30 Days to maintain continuity of benefits without Break in Policy. Coverage is not 
available during the Grace Period. 
 
5.1.10 Possibility of Revision of Terms of the Policy Including the Premium Rates 
The Company, with prior approval of IRDAI, may revise or modify the terms of the Policy including 
the premium rates. The Insured Person  shall be notified three months before the changes are 
affected. 
 
5.1.11 Free look period 
The Free Look Period shall be applicable on new individual health insurance policies and not on 
Renewals or at the time of porting/migrating the Policy.  
The Insured shall be allowed  free look period  of fifteen days from date of receipt of the Policy 
document to review the terms and conditions of the Policy, and to return the same if not acceptable. 
If the Insured has not made any claim during the Free Look Period, the Insured shall be entitled to: 
a) a refund of the premium paid less any expenses incurred by the Company on medical 
examination of the Insured Person and the stamp duty charges or 
b) where the risk has already commenced and the option of return of the Policy is exercised by the 
Insured Person, a deduction towards the proportionate risk premium for period of cover or  
c) Where only a part of the insurance coverage has commenced, such proportionate premium 
commensurate with the insurance coverage during such period. 
 
5.1.12 Nomination: 
The Policy Holder is required at the inception of the Policy to make a nomination for the purpose of 
payment of claims under the Policy in the event of death of the Policy Holder . Any change of 
nomination shall be communicated to the Company in writing and such change shall be effective 
only when an endorsement on the Policy is made. For Claim settlement under reimbursement, the 
Company will pay the Policy Holder. In the event of death of the Policy Holder, the Company will 
pay the Nominee {as named in the Policy Schedule/Policy Certificate/Endorsement (if any)} and  in 
case there is no subsisting Nominee, to the legal heirs or legal representatives of the Policy Holder 
whose discharge shall be treated as full and final discharge of its liability under the Policy. 
 
5.1.13 Withdrawal of Policy 
(a) In the likelihood of this product being withdrawn in future, the Company will intimate the Insured 
Person about the same 90 days prior to expiry of the Policy. 
(b) Insured Person will have the option to migrate to similar health insurance product available with 
the Company at the time of Renewal with all the accrued continuity benefits such as cumulative 
bonus, waiver of waiting period. as per IRDAI guidelines, provided the Policy has been 
maintained without a break. 
 
 

--- PAGE 25 ---

  
Navi Health | UIN: NAVHLIP22133V012122 | Policy Wording  
Navi General Insurance Limited 
Registered Office: Salarpuria Business Centre, 4th Floor, 93, 5th A Block, Koramangala Industrial Layout, Bengaluru, Karnataka – 560095 
Toll-free number: 1800 123 0004 | Website: www.naviinsurance.com | Email: insurance.help@navi.com 
CIN: U66000KA2016PLC148551 | IRDAI Registration Num ber: 155 
 Page 25 of 35  
5.1.14 Moratorium Period-  
After completion of eight continuous years under the Policy no look back to be applied. This period 
of eight years is called as moratorium period. The moratorium would be applicable for the sums 
Insured of the first Policy and subsequently completion of 8 continuous years would be applicable 
from date of enhanceme nt of sums Insured only on the enhanced limits. After the expiry of 
Moratorium Period no health insurance claim shall be contestable except for proven fraud and 
permanent exclusions specified in the Policy contract. The policies would however be subject to  all 
limits, sub limits, co-payments, deductibles as per the Policy contract.  
 
5.1.15 Claim Settlement (Provision of Penal Interest) 
(a) The Company shall settle or reject a claim, as the case may be, within 30 days from the date of 
receipt of last necessary document. 
(b) In the case of delay in the payment of a claim, the Company shall be liable to pay interest to the 
Policy Holder from the date of receipt of last necessary document to the date of payment of 
claim at a rate 2% above the bank rate. 
(c) However, where the circumstances of a claim warrant an investigation in the opinion of the 
Company, it shall initiate and complete such investigation at the earliest, in any case not later 
than 30 days from the date of receipt of last necessary document. In such cases, the Company 
shall settle or reject the claim within 45 days from the date of receipt of last necessary 
document. 
(d) In case of delay beyond stipulated 45 days, the Company shall be liable to pay interest to t he 
Policy Holder  at a rate 2% above the bank rate from the date of receipt of last necessary 
document to the date of payment of claim. 
(e) “Bank rate” shall mean the rate fixed by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) at the beginning of the 
financial year in which claim has fallen due. 
 
5.1.16 Redressal of Grievance 
(a) Grievance– In case of any grievance relating to servicing the Policy, the Insured Person  may 
submit in writing online through mobile application to the Policy issuing office or regional/ 
branch office for redressal. 
 
(b) Alternatively, the Insured Person may also contact the Company through:  
 
Website: www.naviinsurance.com 
Toll free: 1800-123-0004  
E-mail: insurance.help@navi.com 
Courier: Navi General Insurance Limited 
1st floor, Salarpuria Business Centre, 
4th B Cross Road, 5th Block, Koramangala, 
Bengaluru, Karnataka, India- 560095  
 
(c) If Insured Person  is not satisfied with the redressal of grievance through one o f the above 
methods, Insured Person  may contact the grievance officer at 
Manager.CustomeExperience@navi.com 
 

--- PAGE 26 ---

  
Navi Health | UIN: NAVHLIP22133V012122 | Policy Wording  
Navi General Insurance Limited 
Registered Office: Salarpuria Business Centre, 4th Floor, 93, 5th A Block, Koramangala Industrial Layout, Bengaluru, Karnataka – 560095 
Toll-free number: 1800 123 0004 | Website: www.naviinsurance.com | Email: insurance.help@navi.com 
CIN: U66000KA2016PLC148551 | IRDAI Registration Num ber: 155 
 Page 26 of 35  
(d) For updated details of grievance officer, kindly refer the link - www.naviinsurance.com/service/. 
For senior citizens, We have a special cell, and our senior citizen customers can email Us at 
seniorcare@navi.com for priority resolution. 
 
(e) If Insured Person is not satisfied with the redressal of grievance through above methods, the 
Insured Person  may also approach the office o f Insurance Ombudsman of the respective 
area/region for redressal of grievance as per Insurance Ombudsman Rules 2017.   
 
CONTACT DETAILS JURISDICTION 
BENGALURU 
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 
Jeevan Soudha Building, 
PID No.57-27-N-19, 
Ground Floor, 19/19, 24th Main Road, 
JP Nagar, 1st Phase, 
Bengaluru-560 078. 
Tel.:- 080-26652048 / 26652049 
Email:- bimalokpal.bengaluru@gbic.co.in 
 
 
Karnataka. 
 
For all other Ombudsman Offices & Addresses: please r efer the link - 
http://ecoi.co.in/ombudsman.html 
 
5.2 SPECIFIC GENERAL TERMS & CONDITIONS 
 
5.2.1 Premium Payment in Instalments 
If the Insured Person has opted for Payment of Premium on an instalment basis i.e. Half Yearly, 
Quarterly or Monthly, as mentioned in the Policy Schedule/Certificate of Insurance, the following 
Conditions shall apply (notwithstanding any terms contrary elsewhere in the Policy) 
a) Grace Period of 15 days would be given to pay the instalment premium due for the Policy. 
b) During such Grace Period, coverage will not be available from the due date of instalment 
premium till the date of receipt of premium by Company.  
c) The Insured Person will get the accrued continuity benefit in respect of the “Wai ting Periods” 
in the event of payment of premium within the stipulated Grace Period. 
d) No interest will be charged If the instalment premium is not paid on due date.  
e) In case of instalment premium due not received within the Grace Period, the Policy will get 
cancelled.  
f) In the event of a claim, all subsequent premium instalments shall immediately become due 
and payable. 
g) The Company has the right to recover and deduct all the pending instalments from the claim 
amount due under the Policy. 
 
5.2.2 Electronic Transactions 
The Policy Holder / Insured Person agrees to adhere to and comply with all such terms and 
conditions as may be imposed for electronic transactions that We may prescribe from time to time 
which shall be within the terms and conditions of the contract, and hereby agrees and confirms 
that all transactions effected by or through facilities for conducting remote transactions including 
the Internet, World Wide Web, electronic data interchange, call centres, tele -service operations 
(whether voice, video, data or combination thereof) or by means of  electronic, computer, 

--- PAGE 27 ---

  
Navi Health | UIN: NAVHLIP22133V012122 | Policy Wording  
Navi General Insurance Limited 
Registered Office: Salarpuria Business Centre, 4th Floor, 93, 5th A Block, Koramangala Industrial Layout, Bengaluru, Karnataka – 560095 
Toll-free number: 1800 123 0004 | Website: www.naviinsurance.com | Email: insurance.help@navi.com 
CIN: U66000KA2016PLC148551 | IRDAI Registration Num ber: 155 
 Page 27 of 35  
automated machines network or through other means of telecommunication, established by or on 
behalf of Us, for and in respect of the Policy or its terms, shall constitute legally binding and valid 
transactions when done in adherence to and in compliance with Our terms and conditions for 
such facilities, as may be prescribed from time to time which shall be within the terms and 
conditions of the contract. However, the terms of the condition shall not override provisions of any 
law(s) or statutory regulations including provisions of IRDAI regulations for protection of Policy 
Holder’s interests. 
 
5.2.3 Loadings 
a) We may apply a risk loading on the premium payable (based upon the declarations made in 
the Proposal Form and the health status of the persons proposed for insurance).  
b) The maximum risk loading applicable for an individual shall not exceed 100% of premium per 
diagnosis / medical condition and an overall risk loading of over 150% of premium per person .  
c) These loadings are applied from Commencement Date of the Policy including subsequent 
Renewal(s) with Us or on the receipt of the request of increase in Sum Insured (for the 
increased Sum Insured).  
d) We will inform You about the applicable risk loading through a counteroffer letter. Please note 
that We will issue Policy only after getting Your consent 
 
5.2.4 Material Change  
The Insured shall notify the Company in writing of any material change in the risk in relation to the 
declaration made in the Proposal Form or medical examination report at each Renewal and the 
Company may, adjust the scope of cover and / or premium, if necessary, accordingly. 
 
5.2.5 Records to be Maintained  
The Insured Person shall keep an accurate record containing all relevant medical records and shall 
allow the Company or its representatives to inspect such records. The Policy Holder or Insured 
Person shall furnish such information as the Company may require for settlement of any claim 
under the Policy, within reasonable time limit and within the time limit specified in the Policy. 
 
5.2.6 Notice & Communication  
(a) Any notice, direction, instruction or any other communication related to the Policy should be 
made in writing. 
(b) Such communication shall be sent to the address of the Company or through any other 
electronic modes specified in the Policy Schedule. 
(c) The Company shall communicate to the Insured at the address or through any other electronic 
mode mentioned in the schedule. 
 
5.2.7 Territorial Limit & Nationality  
All medical treatment for the purpose of this insurance will have to be taken in India only. Resident 
Indian or Non-resident Indian paying premium in Indian currency is eligible for coverage under the 
Policy 
 
5.2.8 Automatic change in Coverage under the Policy 
The coverage for the Insured Person(s) shall automatically terminate: 
(a) In the case of his/ her (Insured Person) demise. However, the cover shall continue for the 
remaining Insured Persons till the end of Policy Period. The other Insured Persons may also 
apply to renew the Policy. In case, the other Insured Person is minor, the Policy shall be 
renewed only through any one of his/her natural guardian or guardians appointed by court. All 

--- PAGE 28 ---

  
Navi Health | UIN: NAVHLIP22133V012122 | Policy Wording  
Navi General Insurance Limited 
Registered Office: Salarpuria Business Centre, 4th Floor, 93, 5th A Block, Koramangala Industrial Layout, Bengaluru, Karnataka – 560095 
Toll-free number: 1800 123 0004 | Website: www.naviinsurance.com | Email: insurance.help@navi.com 
CIN: U66000KA2016PLC148551 | IRDAI Registration Num ber: 155 
 Page 28 of 35  
relevant particulars in respect of such person (including his/her relationship with the Insured 
Person) must be submitted to the Company along with the application. Provided no claim has 
been made, and termination takes place on account of death of the Insured Person, pro-rata 
refund of premium of the deceased Insured Person for the balance period of the Policy will be 
effective. 
(b) Upon exhaustion of Sum Insured and cumulative bonus, for the Policy Year. However, the 
Policy is subject to Renewal on the due date as per the applicable terms and conditions. 
 
5.2.9 Territorial Jurisdiction  
All disputes or differences under or in relation to the interpretation of the terms, conditions, 
validity, construct, limitations and/or exclusions contained in the Policy shall be determined by the 
Indian court and according to Indian law. 
 
5.2.10 Arbitration  
(a) If any dispute or difference shall arise as to the quantum to be paid by the Policy, (liability 
being otherwise admitted) such difference shall independently of all other questions, be 
referred to the decision of a sole arbitrator to be appointed in writing  by the parties here to or 
if they cannot agree upon a single arbitrator within thirty days of any party invoking 
arbitration, the same shall be referred to a panel of three arbitrators, comprising two 
arbitrators, one to be appointed by each of the parties to the dispute/difference and the third 
arbitrator to be appointed by such two arbitrators and arbitration shall be conducted under 
and in accordance with the provisions of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act 1996, as 
amended by Arbitration and Conciliation (Amendment) Act, 2015 (No. 3 of 2016). 
(b) It is clearly agreed and understood that no difference or dispute shall be preferable to 
arbitration as herein before provided if the Company has disputed or not accepted liability 
under or in respect of the Policy. 
(c) It is hereby expressly stipulated and declared that it shall be a Condition Precedent to any 
right of action or suit upon the Policy that award by such arbitrator/arbitrators of the amount 
of expenses shall be first obtained. 
 
5.2.11 Endorsements (Changes in Policy)  
(a) This Policy constitutes the complete contract of insurance. This Policy cannot be modified by 
anyone (including an insurance agent or broker) except Us. Any change made by the Us shall 
be evidenced by a written endorsement signed and stamped. 
(b) The Policy Holder may be changed only at the time of Renewal. The new Policy Holder must 
be the legal heir/immediate Family member (Spouse/ Son/ Daughter/ Parents). Such change 
would be subject to acceptance by the Company and payment of premium (if any). The 
renewed Policy shall be treated as having been renewed without break. 
(c) The Policy Holder may be changed during the Policy Period only in case of his/her demise or 
him/her moving out of India or in case of divorce of the Policy Holder. 
 
5.2.12 Change of Sum Insured  
Sum Insured can be changed (increased/ decreased) only at the time of Renewal, subject to 
underwriting by the Company. For any increase in SI, the waiting period shall start afresh only for 
the enhanced portion of the Sum Insured. 
 
5.2.13 Addition of Insured Person 
(a) An additional Insured Person can be added to the Policy during the Policy Period if such 
additional Insured Person is: (i) a child between the age of 91 days and 180 days (both days 

--- PAGE 29 ---

  
Navi Health | UIN: NAVHLIP22133V012122 | Policy Wording  
Navi General Insurance Limited 
Registered Office: Salarpuria Business Centre, 4th Floor, 93, 5th A Block, Koramangala Industrial Layout, Bengaluru, Karnataka – 560095 
Toll-free number: 1800 123 0004 | Website: www.naviinsurance.com | Email: insurance.help@navi.com 
CIN: U66000KA2016PLC148551 | IRDAI Registration Num ber: 155 
 Page 29 of 35  
inclusive); or (ii) a newly married spouse and such addition is requested for  within 3 months of 
the marriage. 
(b) An additional Insured Person can be added to the Policy at the time of Renewal of the Policy 
as well, subject to underwriting by Insurer. 
(c) With respect to all newly added Insured Person, waiting periods will apply afresh  
 
5.2.14 Terms and conditions of the Policy  
The terms and conditions contained herein and in the Policy Schedule shall be deemed to form 
part of the Policy and shall be read together as one document. 
5.2.15 Basis of claim payment 
(a) If You suffer a relapse of a medical condition within 45 days of the date when You last 
obtained medical treatment or consulted a Medical Practitioner and for which a claim has 
been made, then such relapse shall be deemed to be Any One Illness and shall be part of the 
same claim 
(b) We will make the claim payment in Indian Rupees only 
(c) You agree that We shall make payment only when You or someone claiming on Your behalf 
has provided Us with necessary documents and information required for claim asse ssment 
and decision. 
 
5.2.16 Claims Process 
(a) Completed claim form and other relevant documents including documents must be furnished 
to Us / TPA within the stipulated timelines for reimbursement of all claims under this Policy. 
Failure to furnish this documentation within the time required shall not invalidate nor reduce 
any claim if You can satisfy that it was not reasonably possible for You to submit / give proof 
within such time. 
(b) Cashless Facility and Reimbursement Claim processing shall be carried out through TPAs 
empanelled by Us or in-house by Us, details of the same will be available on the Policy 
Schedule. For the latest list of Network Providers, You can log on to Our mobile application/ 
Our website. 
 
Claim Intimation: 
If You meet with any Accident leading to Injury or suffer an Illness that may result in a claim under 
this Policy, then as a Condition Precedent to Our liability, You must comply with the following 
claim procedures: 
You must notify Your claim to Us through online channel including mobile application that is 
available or at call centre. 
 
Type of 
Hospitalisation Notify Us 
Planned 
Hospitalisation 
Immediately and in any event at least 48 hours prior to Your 
admission. 
Emergency 
Hospitalisation 
Within 24 hours of Your admission to Hospital or before 
discharge whichever is earlier 
 
The following details may be required by Us at the time of intimation of Claim:  
• Policy number/ member number 
• Name of the Policy Holder 
• Name of the Insured Person in whose relation the claim is being lodged 

--- PAGE 30 ---

  
Navi Health | UIN: NAVHLIP22133V012122 | Policy Wording  
Navi General Insurance Limited 
Registered Office: Salarpuria Business Centre, 4th Floor, 93, 5th A Block, Koramangala Industrial Layout, Bengaluru, Karnataka – 560095 
Toll-free number: 1800 123 0004 | Website: www.naviinsurance.com | Email: insurance.help@navi.com 
CIN: U66000KA2016PLC148551 | IRDAI Registration Num ber: 155 
 Page 30 of 35  
• Nature of Illness / Injury 
• Name and address of the attending Medical Practitioner and Hospital 
• Date of admission 
• Any other information as requested by Us 
 
Failure to intimate a claim within the time required shall not invalidate nor reduce any claim if You 
can satisfy that it was not reasonably possible for You to intimate the claim within such time  
 
Cashless Facility Claim Procedure: 
Cashless Facility is available for Hospitalisation only at Our Network Provider. The Insured Person 
can avail Cashless Facility at Network Provider, by presenting the health card as provided by Us 
with this Policy, along with a valid photo identification proof (Voter ID card / Driving License / 
Passport / PAN Card / Aadhar Card, any other identity proof as approved by Us).  
 
(a) For Planned Hospitalisation:  
i) The Insured Person should at least 48 hrs prior to admission to the Hospital approach the 
Network Provider for Hospitalisation for Medical Necessary Treatment. 
ii) Insured Person  will need to provide health Card / Policy details at Hospital admission 
counter. 
iii) The Network Provider may either consider treating the Insured Person by taking a token 
deposit or treating as per their norms. 
iv) The Network Provider shall electronically send the pre -authorization form along with all 
the relevant details to Us or TPA along with contact details of the treating Medical 
Practitioner and the Insured Person. 
v) Wherever the information provided in the request is sufficient to ascertain the 
authorisation, the authorisation letter will be issued to the Network Provider. Wherever 
additional information or documents are required, the same will be called for from the 
Network Provider  and upon satisfactory receipt of  last necessary documents the 
authorisation will be issued. 
vi) If the procedure above is followed, on Our written authorization, You will not be required 
to directly pay for the bill amount in the Network Hospital that We are liable under Section 
3.1, Hospitalization of the Policy.  
vii) You must leave the original bills and evidence of treatment in respect of the 
Hospitalization with the Network Provider  and ensure to take photocopies of relevant 
medical records for future reference. Pre -authorisation does not gua rantee that all costs 
and expenses will be covered. We reserve the right to review each claim for Medical 
Expenses and accordingly coverage will be determined according to the terms and 
conditions of this Policy. 
viii) At the time of discharge, Network Provider may request You to sign the final authorization 
letter that was issued by Us. 
ix) The Network Provider shall refund th e deposit amount to You barring an amount to be 
charged for non-covered expenses, if any. 
 
 
 

--- PAGE 31 ---

  
Navi Health | UIN: NAVHLIP22133V012122 | Policy Wording  
Navi General Insurance Limited 
Registered Office: Salarpuria Business Centre, 4th Floor, 93, 5th A Block, Koramangala Industrial Layout, Bengaluru, Karnataka – 560095 
Toll-free number: 1800 123 0004 | Website: www.naviinsurance.com | Email: insurance.help@navi.com 
CIN: U66000KA2016PLC148551 | IRDAI Registration Num ber: 155 
 Page 31 of 35  
(b) In case of Emergency Hospitalisation: 
i. The Insured Person may approach the Network Provider for Hospitalisation 
ii. The Network Provider/ Insured Person shall follow the same process as explained above 
in septs iii to viii above under section Planned Hospitalization.   
It is possible that Cashless Facility may be denied for Hospitalisation due to insufficient Sum 
Insured or insufficient information to dete rmine admissibility in which case You/Insured 
Person may be required to pay for the treatment and submit the claim for reimbursement to 
Us/ TPA which will be considered subject to the Policy Terms & Conditions. 
 
We in Our sole discretion, reserves the right to modify, add or restrict any Network Provider 
for Cashless Facility under the Policy. Before availing the Cashless Facility, the Policy Holder 
/ Insured Person is required to check the applicable/latest list of Network Providers on Our 
mobile application/ Our website at www.naviinsurance.com 
 
Reimbursement Claim Procedure: 
Wherever You have opted for a reimbursement of expenses, You may submit the documents for 
reimbursement of the claim electronically including by direct upload on Our mobile application not 
later than 15 days from the date of discharge from the Hospital. You can obtain a Claim Form from 
by downloading a copy from Our website at www.naviinsurance.com or from Our mobile 
application. The necessary copies of claim documents to be submitted for reimbursement may 
include following: (a) d uly filled claim form; (b) d ischarge/ death Summary  (as applicable); (c) 
operation theatre notes (if any); (d) hospital main bill along with break up bill and original receipts; 
(e) investigation reports- Haematology, Histo-pathology and Radiology; (f) doctors referral slips or 
prescription for investigations/pharmacy; (g) pharmacy bills; (h) MLC/FIR report/post mortem report 
(if applicable and conducted ); (i) details of the implants including the sticker indicating the type as 
well as invoice towards the cost of implant ; (j) KYC documents (Photo ID proof, Pan Card, Aadhar 
Card); (k) Cancelled cheque for NEFT payment 
We may call for any additional documents/information as required based on the circumstances of 
the claim. 
 
Cashless process to avail Outpatient Treatment benefit or Complimentary Health Check-up benefit: 
i) You shall request for an appointment with Service Provider  through Our mobile 
application at least 72 hrs prior to service. 
ii) Before scheduling an appointment, You may have to submit certain details about planned 
service which may include date of service, type and nature of service, details about Illness/ 
Injury etc. 
iii) On receiving the information as above, We shall check Your eligibility to avail the service 
and process the request further to schedule an appointment or may reject the request.   
iv) Insured Person may receive confirmation on appointment booking through SMS, Email or 
in the form of notification in the mobile application. 
v) You will avail the service as per the appointment schedule. 
vi) You shall upload the images of all the supporting documents related to service including 
but not limited to consultation note, prescription, investigation reports within 15 days of 
the date of service. 

--- PAGE 32 ---

  
Navi Health | UIN: NAVHLIP22133V012122 | Policy Wording  
Navi General Insurance Limited 
Registered Office: Salarpuria Business Centre, 4th Floor, 93, 5th A Block, Koramangala Industrial Layout, Bengaluru, Karnataka – 560095 
Toll-free number: 1800 123 0004 | Website: www.naviinsurance.com | Email: insurance.help@navi.com 
CIN: U66000KA2016PLC148551 | IRDAI Registration Num ber: 155 
 Page 32 of 35  
vii) Your failure to submit the supporting documents by uploading images through mobile 
application may lead Us to hold any future service requests  for OPD benefit or 
Complimentary Health Check-up benefit on Our mobile application.   
 
5.2.17 Delay in Claim Settlement 
In addition to the penalty payable under Clause 5.1.15 (Claim Settlement (Provision of Penal 
Interest)) above, in the event of delay in settlement of admitted cashless claims within the specific 
timelines communicated in writing by Us, We will p ay an additional amount determined and 
communicated by Us, as penalty. 
5.2.18 Physical Examination 
You may require undergoing medical examination by a Medical Practitioner  authorized by Us to 
examine You to establish Our liability in case of a claim under the Policy. The cost towards 
performing such medical examination shall be borne by Us.  
 
5.2.19 Claim Related Information 
You may submit query related to the claim or intimate the claim or submit claim document to Us 
through Our mobile application. Alternatively, You may also contact Us through: 
Website: www.naviinsurance.com 
Toll free: 809-584-0012 
E-mail: claim.help@navi.com 
 
Annexure I 
Items which are not payable under the policy are mentioned under List - I, unless they are specifically 
covered and stated in Policy Schedule. 
Items which are to be subsumed into room charges are specified in List – II, procedure charges are 
specified in List III, costs of treatment (including costs of diagnostics) specified in List IV.  
Items which are part of room / surgical procedure / treatment (including diagnostics) as referred in the lists  
(II-IV) herein may not be eligible for coverage if billed separately by Hospital.  
 
List I - TOILETRIES / COSMETICS / PERSONAL COMFORT OR CONVENIENCE ITEMS / 
SIMILAR EXPENSES  
SI No. Item 
1 BABY FOOD 
2 BABY UTILITES CHARGES 
3 BEAUTY SERVICES 
4 BELTS/ BRACES 
5 BUDS 
6 COLD PACK/HOT PACK 
7 CARRY BAGS 
8 EMAIL / INTERNET CHARGES 
9 FOOD CHARGES (OTHER THAN PATIENT's DIET PROVIDED BY HOSPITAL)  
10 LEGGINGS 
11 LAUNDRY CHARGES 
12 MINERAL WATER 
13 SANITARY PAD 
14 TELEPHONE CHARGES 

--- PAGE 33 ---

  
Navi Health | UIN: NAVHLIP22133V012122 | Policy Wording  
Navi General Insurance Limited 
Registered Office: Salarpuria Business Centre, 4th Floor, 93, 5th A Block, Koramangala Industrial Layout, Bengaluru, Karnataka – 560095 
Toll-free number: 1800 123 0004 | Website: www.naviinsurance.com | Email: insurance.help@navi.com 
CIN: U66000KA2016PLC148551 | IRDAI Registration Num ber: 155 
 Page 33 of 35  
15 GUEST SERVICES 
16 CREPE BANDAGE 
17 DIAPER OF ANY TYPE 
18 EYELET COLLAR 
19 SLINGS 
20 BLOOD GROUPING AND CROSS MATCHING OF DONORS SAMPLES  
21 SERVICE CHARGES WHERE NURSING CHARGE ALSO CHARGED  
22 TELEVISION CHARGES 
23 SURCHARGES 
24 ATTENDANT CHARGES 
25 EXTRA DIET OF PATIENT (OTHER THAN THAT WHICH FORMS PART OF BED CHARGE)  
26 BIRTH CERTIFICATE 
27 CERTIFICATE CHARGES 
28 COURIER CHARGES 
29 CONVENYANCE CHARGES 
30 MEDICAL CERTIFICATE 
31 MEDICAL RECORDS 
32 PHOTOCOPIES CHARGES 
33 MORTUARY CHARGES 
34 WALKING AIDS CHARGES 
35 OXYGEN CYLINDER (FOR USAGE OUTSIDE THE HOSPITAL) 
36 SPACER 
37 SPIROMETRE 
38 NEBULIZER KIT 
39 STEAM INHALER 
40 ARMSLING 
41 THERMOMETER 
42 CERVICAL COLLAR 
43 SPLINT 
44 DIABETIC FOOT WEAR 
45 KNEE BRACES ( LONG / SHORT / HINGED) 
46 KNEE IMMOBILIZER / SHOULDER IMMOBILIZER 
47 LUMBO SACRAL BELT 
48 NIMBUS BED OR WATER OR AIR BED CHARGES 
49 AMBULANCE COLLAR 
50 AMBULANCE EQUIPMENT 
51 ABDOMINAL BINDER 
52 PRIVATE NURSES CHARGES - SPECIAL NURSING CHARGES 
53 SUGAR FREE TABLETS 
54 
CREAMS POWDERS LOTIONS (Toiletries are not payable, only prescribed medical 
pharmaceuticals payable) 
55 ECG ELECTRODES 
56 GLOVES 
57 NEBULISATION KIT 
58 ANY KIT WITH NO DETAILS MENTIONED [DELIVERY KIT, ORTHOKIT, RECOVERY KIT, ETC] 
59 KIDNEY TRAY 
60 MASK 
61 OUNCE GLASS 

--- PAGE 34 ---

  
Navi Health | UIN: NAVHLIP22133V012122 | Policy Wording  
Navi General Insurance Limited 
Registered Office: Salarpuria Business Centre, 4th Floor, 93, 5th A Block, Koramangala Industrial Layout, Bengaluru, Karnataka – 560095 
Toll-free number: 1800 123 0004 | Website: www.naviinsurance.com | Email: insurance.help@navi.com 
CIN: U66000KA2016PLC148551 | IRDAI Registration Num ber: 155 
 Page 34 of 35  
 
 
List II – Items that are to be subsumed into Room Charges 
No  Item  
1  BABY CHARGES (UNLESS SPECIFIED/INDICATED)  
2  HAND WASH  
3  SHOE COVER  
4  CAPS  
5  CRADLE CHARGES  
6  COMB  
7  EAU-DE-COLOGNE / ROOM FRESHNERS  
8  FOOT COVER  
9  GOWN  
10  SLIPPERS  
11  TISSUE PAPER  
12  TOOTH PASTE  
13  TOOTH BRUSH  
14  BED PAN  
15  FACE MASK  
16  FLEXI MASK  
17  HAND HOLDER  
18  SPUTUM CUP  
19  DISINFECTANT LOTIONS  
20  LUXURY TAX  
21  HVAC  
22  HOUSE KEEPING CHARGES  
23  AIR CONDITIONER CHARGES  
24  IM IV INJECTION CHARGES  
25  CLEAN SHEET  
26  BLANKET/WARMER BLANKET  
27  ADMISSION KIT  
28  DIABETIC CHART CHARGES  
29  DOCUMENTATION CHARGES / ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES  
30  DISCHARGE PROCEDURE CHARGES  
31  DAILY CHART CHARGES  
32  ENTRANCE PASS / VISITORS PASS CHARGES  
33  EXPENSES RELATED TO PRESCRIPTION ON DISCHARGE  
34  FILE OPENING CHARGES  
35  INCIDENTAL EXPENSES / MISC. CHARGES (NOT EXPLAINED)  
36  PATIENT IDENTIFICATION BAND / NAME TAG  
37  PULSEOXYMETER CHARGES  
62 OXYGEN MASK 
63 PELVIC TRACTION BELT 
64 PAN CAN 
65 TROLLY COVER 
66 UROMETER, URINE JUG 
67 AMBULANCE 
68 VASOFIX SAFETY 

--- PAGE 35 ---

  
Navi Health | UIN: NAVHLIP22133V012122 | Policy Wording  
Navi General Insurance Limited 
Registered Office: Salarpuria Business Centre, 4th Floor, 93, 5th A Block, Koramangala Industrial Layout, Bengaluru, Karnataka – 560095 
Toll-free number: 1800 123 0004 | Website: www.naviinsurance.com | Email: insurance.help@navi.com 
CIN: U66000KA2016PLC148551 | IRDAI Registration Num ber: 155 
 Page 35 of 35  
 
List III – Items that are to be subsumed into Procedure Charges 
Sl No.  Item  
1  HAIR REMOVAL CREAM  
2  DISPOSABLES RAZORS CHARGES (for site preparations)  
3  EYE PAD  
4  EYE SHEILD  
5  CAMERA COVER  
6  DVD, CD CHARGES  
7  GAUSE SOFT  
8  GAUZE  
9  WARD AND THEATRE BOOKING CHARGES  
10  ARTHROSCOPY AND ENDOSCOPY INSTRUMENTS  
11  MICROSCOPE COVER  
12  SURGICAL BLADES, HARMONICSCALPEL,SHAVER  
13  SURGICAL DRILL  
14  EYE KIT  
15  EYE DRAPE  
16  X-RAY FILM  
17  BOYLES APPARATUS CHARGES  
18  COTTON  
19  COTTON BANDAGE  
20  SURGICAL TAPE  
21  APRON  
22  TORNIQUET  
23  ORTHOBUNDLE, GYNAEC BUNDLE  
 
List IV – Items that are to be subsumed into costs of treatment 
No.  Item  
1  ADMISSION/REGISTRATION CHARGES  
2  HOSPITALISATION FOR EVALUATION/ DIAGNOSTIC PURPOSE  
3  URINE CONTAINER  
4  BLOOD RESERVATION CHARGES AND ANTE NATAL BOOKING CHARGES  
5  BIPAP MACHINE  
6  CPAP/ CAPD EQUIPMENTS  
7  INFUSION PUMP– COST  
8  HYDROGEN PEROXIDE\SPIRIT\ DISINFECTANTS ETC  
9  NUTRITION PLANNING CHARGES - DIETICIAN CHARGES- DIET CHARGES  
10  HIV KIT  
11  ANTISEPTIC MOUTHWASH  
12  LOZENGES  
13  MOUTH PAINT  
14  VACCINATION CHARGES  
15  ALCOHOL SWABES  
16  SCRUB SOLUTION/STERILLIUM  
17  Glucometer & Strips  
18  URINE BAG