--- PAGE 1 ---

Policy Document 
Product- Arogya Sanjeevani, Niva Bupa Health Insurance Co. Ltd.  |  UIN- NBHHLIP22151V012122   Page 1 of 26 
The name of the Company has changed from Max Bupa Health Insurance Company Limited to Niva Bupa Health Insurance 
Company Limited effective 5th July, 2021 
   
Internal 
 
1. PREAMBLE 
 
This Policy is a contract of insurance issued by Niva Bupa Health Insurance Company Limited (hereinafter called 
the 'Company') to the proposer mentioned in the schedule (hereinafter called the 'Insured') to cover the person(s) 
named in the schedule (hereinafter called the 'Insured Persons' ). The policy is based on the statements and 
declaration provided in the Proposal Form by the proposer and is subject to receipt of the requisite premium. 
 
 
2. OPERATIVE  CLAUSE 
 
If during the policy period one or more Insured Person(s) is required to be hospitalized for treatment of an Illness 
or Injury at a Hospital/ Day Care C entre, following Medical Advice  of a duly qualified Me dical Practitioner, the 
Company shall indemnify Medically necessary, expenses towards the Coverage mentioned  in the policy 
schedule. 
 
Provided further that, any amount payable under the policy shall be subject to the terms of coverage (including 
any co -pay, sub limits), exclusions, conditions and definitions contained herein. Maximum liability of the 
Company under all  such  Claims  during  each  Policy  Year  shall  be  the  Sum  Insured (Individual or Floater) 
opted and Cumulative Bon us (if any) specified  in the Schedule. 
 
3. DEFINITIONS 
 
The terms defined below and at other junctures in the Policy have the meanings ascribed  to  them wherever  
they  appear  in  this  Policy  and,  where,  the  context  so  requires,  references  to  the  singular include 
references to the plural; references to the male includes the female and  references  to  any statutory  enactment  
includes  subsequent  changes to the same. 
 
3.1. Accident means  a  sudden,  unforeseen  and  involuntary  event  caused  by  external,  visible  and violent 
means. 
 
3.2. Age means age of the Insured person on last birthday as on date of commencement of the Policy.  
 
3.3. Any One Illness means continuous period of illness and it includes relapse with in forty five days from the 
date of last consultation with the hospital where treatment has been taken. 
 
3.4. AYUSH   Treatment   refers   to   hospital isation   treatments   give n   under   Ayu rveda,   Yoga   and 
Naturopathy, Unani, Siddha and Homeopathy systems. 
 
3.5. An AYUSH Hospital is a healthcare facility wherein med ical/surgical/para-surgical treatment proced ures 
and interventions are carried out by  AYUSH Medical  Practitioner(s)  comprising of any of the following : 
 
i. Central or State Government AYUSH Hospital or 
ii. Teaching hospital attached to AYUSH College recogn ized by the Central Government/Central Council 
of Indian Medicine/Central Council for Homeopathy; or 
iii. AYUSH Hospital, standalone or co-located with  in-patient  healthcare  facility  of any recognized system 
of medicine, registered with the local authorities, wherever applicable, and is under the supervision of a 
qualified registered AYUSH Medical Practitioner and must comply with all the following criterion: 
a. Having at least 5 in-patient beds; 
b. Having qualified AYUSH Medical Practitioner in charge round the clock; 
c. Having  ded icated  AYUSH  therapy   sect ions  as  required  and/or  has equipped operati on 
theatre where surgical procedures are to be carried out; 
d. Maintaining daily records of the patients and making them accessible to the insurance company 
's authorized representative. 
 
3.6. AYUSH  Day  Care  Cent re  means  and  includes  Commun ity  Health   Centre  (CHC),   Primary Heal th 
Centre (PHC), Dispensary, Clinic, Polyclin ic or any such health  centre which is registered wi th the l ocal 
authorities, wherever applicable and havi ng facilities  for  carrying  out  treatment procedures and med ical 
or su rgical/para-surgical interventi ons or both under the supe rvision of registered AYUSH Medi cal 
Practitioner (s) on day care basis without in-patient services and must comply with all the following criterion: 
i. Having qualified registered  AYUSH Medical  Practitioner(s) in charge; 

--- PAGE 2 ---

Policy Document 
Product- Arogya Sanjeevani, Niva Bupa Health Insurance Co. Ltd.  |  UIN- NBHHLIP22151V012122   Page 2 of 26 
The name of the Company has changed from Max Bupa Health Insurance Company Limited to Niva Bupa Health Insurance 
Company Limited effective 5th July, 2021 
   
Internal 
 
ii. Having dedicated AYUSH therapy sections as  required  and/or  has equipped operation  theatre where  
surgical procedures are to be carried out; 
iii. Maintaining dai ly records of the pat ients and making them accessible to the insurance company's 
authorized representative. 
 
 
3.7. Break in Policy means the period of gap that occurs at the end of the existing policy term, when the premium 
due for renewal on a given policy is not paid on or before the premium renewal date or within 30 days thereof. 
 
3.8. Cashless Facility means a facility extended by  the  insurer  to the  insured  w here  the payments,  of the 
costs of treatment undergone by the insured person in  accordance  with  the Policy terms and conditions, 
are directly  made to the network provider by the insurer to the extent pre-authorization is  approved. 
 
3.9. Condition  Precedent  means  a  Policy  term  or  condition  upon  which  the  Company 's  liability under 
the Policy is conditional upon. 
 
3.10. Congenital Anomaly refers to a condition(s) which is present since birth , and which is abnormal with 
reference to form, structure or position. 
 
i. Internal Congenital Anomaly 
Congenital anomaly which is not in the visible and accessible parts of the body. 
ii. External Congenital Anomaly 
Congenital anomaly which is in the visible and accessible parts of the body. 
 
3.11. Co-payment means a cost sharing requ irement under a health insurance pol icy that provides that the 
policyholder/insured will bear a specified percentage of the admissible claims amount. A co­ payment does 
not reduce the Sum Insured. 
 
3.12. Cumulative Bonus means any increase or addition in the Sum Insured granted by the insurer without 
an associated increase in premium. 
 
3.13. Day Care Centre  means any institution established for day care treatment o f disease/ injuries or a  
medical setup within a hospital and which has been registered with the local authorities, wherever   
applicable, and is under the supervision of a registered and qualified medical practitioner AND must comply 
with all minimum criteria as under: 
 
i. has  qualified  nursing staff under  its employment; 
ii. has  qualified  medical  practitioner(s)  in charge; 
iii. has a fully equipped operation theatre of its own where surgical procedures are carried out 
iv. maintains daily records of patien ts and shall make these accessi ble to the Company's authorized 
personnel. 
 
3.14. Day Care Treatment means medical treatment, and/or surgical procedure which is: 
i. undertaken   under  general  or  local  anesthesia  in  a  hospital/day   care  centre  in  less  than twenty 
four hours  because  of  technological   advancement,  and 
ii. which would hav e otherwise requ ired a hospitalisati on of more than twenty four hou rs. Treatment 
normally taken on an out-patient basis is not included in the scope of this definition. 
 
3.15. Dental Treatment means a treatment carried out by a dental practitioner including examinations, fillings 
(where appropriate), crowns, extractions and surgery. 
 
3.16. Disclosure to information norm : The policy shall be void a nd all premiu m paid thereon shall be 
forfeited to the Company in the event of misrepresentation, mis-description or non-disclosure of any material 
fact. 
 
3.17. Emergency Care : Emergency care means managem ent for an illness or injury which resu lts in 
symptoms which occur suddenly and unexpectedly, and requires immediate care by a med ical practitioner 
to prevent death or serious long term impairment of the insured person's health. 
 

--- PAGE 3 ---

Policy Document 
Product- Arogya Sanjeevani, Niva Bupa Health Insurance Co. Ltd.  |  UIN- NBHHLIP22151V012122   Page 3 of 26 
The name of the Company has changed from Max Bupa Health Insurance Company Limited to Niva Bupa Health Insurance 
Company Limited effective 5th July, 2021 
   
Internal 
 
3.18. Family means, the Family that consists of the proposer and any one or more of the family members as 
mentioned below: 
 
i. legally wedded  spouse. 
ii. Parents and  Parents-i n-law. 
iii. Dependent Children (i.e. natural or legally adopted) between the age 3 months to 25 years. If the child 
above 18 years of age is financially independent, he or she shall be inel igible for coverage in the 
subsequent renewals. 
 
3.19. Grace Period  means  specified  period  of  time  immediately  following  the  premium  due  date during 
which a payment can be made to renew or  continue  the  Policy  in  force  without  loss of continuity benefits 
such as waiting period  and  coverage  of pre-existing  diseases. Coverage is not available for the period for 
which no premium is received. 
 
3.20. Hospital means any institution established for in -patient care a nd day care treatment  of  disease/ 
injuries and which has been registered as a  hospital with the  local  au thorities  under  the  Clin ical 
Establishments (Registration and Regulation) Act, 2010 or under the enactments  specified  under Schedule 
of Section 56(1) of the said Act, OR complies with all minimum criteria as under: 
 
i. has  qualified  nursing  staff under  its employment  round  the  clock; 
ii. has  at  least  ten  inpatient   beds,  in  those  towns  having a popu lation  of  less  than  ten  lakhs  and  
fifteen in-patient  beds  in  all other places; 
iii. has qualified  medical  practitioner(s) in charge round the clock; 
iv. has a fully equipped  operation theatre of its own where surgical procedures are carried out 
v. maintains daily records of patients and shall make these accessible to t he Company's  authorized 
personnel. 
 
3.21. Hospitalisation means admission in a hospital for a minimum period of twenty -four (24) consecuti ve  
'In-patient  care'  hours  except  for  specified  procedures/  treatments,  where  such admission could be for 
a period of less than twenty four (24) consecutive hours. 
 
3.22. Illness means a sickness or a disease or pathological  condition  leading  to  the  impairment  of normal  
physiological  function  which  manifests  itself  during  the  policy  period  and  requires medical   treatment. 
 
i. Acute Condition means a disease, illness or  injury  that  is  likely  to  response  qu ickly  to treatment 
which aims to return the person to his or her state of  health  immediately  before suffering the disease/ 
illness/ injury which  leads to full recovery. 
ii. Chronic C ondition means a disease, illness, or i njury that has one or more of the fol lowing 
characteristics 
a. it needs ongoing or long -term monitoring through consultations, examinations, check -ups, and/or 
tests 
b. it needs ongoing or long-term control or relief of symptoms 
c. it requires rehabilitation for the patient or for the patient to be special trained to cope with it  
d. it continues  indefinitely 
e. it recurs or is likely to recur 
 
3.23. Injury means accidental physical bodily harm excluding illness or disease solely and directly caused by 
external, violent and visible and evident means which is verified and certified by a medical practitioner. 
 
3.24. In-Patient Care means treatment for wh ich the insured person has to stay in a hospital for more than 
24 hours for a covered event. 
 
3.25. Insured Person means person(s) named in the schedule of the Policy. 
 
3.26. Intensive Care Unit means an identified section, ward or wing of a hospital which is under the constant 
supervision of a dedicated  medical  practitioner(s) , and  which  is specially  equipped  for the contin uous 
monitoring and treatment of patients who are in a critical condition , or require life support facilities and where 
the  level  of care and supervision  is considerably  more sophisticated and i ntensive than in the ordinary 
and other wards . 
 

--- PAGE 4 ---

Policy Document 
Product- Arogya Sanjeevani, Niva Bupa Health Insurance Co. Ltd.  |  UIN- NBHHLIP22151V012122   Page 4 of 26 
The name of the Company has changed from Max Bupa Health Insurance Company Limited to Niva Bupa Health Insurance 
Company Limited effective 5th July, 2021 
   
Internal 
 
3.27. ICU (Intensive Care Unit) Charges means the amount charged by a Hospital  towards  ICU expenses 
on a per day basis which shal l incl ude the expenses  for  ICU  bed, general  med ical support services 
provided to  any  ICU  patient  including  monitoring devices, critical  care  nursing and  intensivist  charges. 
 
3.28. Medical Advice means any consultation or advice from a Medical Practitioner including the issue of any 
prescription or follow up prescription. 
 
3.29. Medical Expenses means those expenses that an insured person has necessarily and actually incurred 
for medical treatment on account of i llness or accident on the advice of a medical practitioner , as long as 
these are no more than wou ld have been payable if the insu red person had not been insur ed and no more 
than other hospitals or doctors in the same locality would have charged for the same medical treatment. 
 
3.30. Medical Practitioner means a person who holds a valid registration from the Medical Cou ncil of any 
state or Medical Council of India or Council for Indian Medicine or for Homeopathy set up by the Government 
of India or a State Government and is thereby entitled to practice medicine within its jurisdiction; and is acting 
within the scope and jurisdiction of the licence. 
 
3.31. Medically Necessary Treatment means any treatment, tests, medication , or stay in hospital or part of 
a stay in hospital which 
 
i. is required for the medical management of illness or injury suffered by the insured ; 
ii. must not exceed  the  level  of care necessary  to provide  safe, adequate and  appropriate medical care 
in scope, duration , or intensity ; 
iii. must have been prescribed by a medical practitioner; 
iv. must conform to the professional  st andards widely  accepted  in  international  medical practice  or by 
the medical community in India. 
 
3.32. Migration means, the right accorded to health insurance policy holders (including all members under 
family cover and members of group Health insurance policy), to transfer the credit gained for pre -existing 
conditions and time bound exclusions, with the same insurer. 
 
3.33. Network Provider means hospitals en listed by insurer, TPA or jointly by an insurer and TPA to provide 
medical services to an insured by a cashless facility. 
 
3.34. Non- Network Provider means any hospital that is not part of the network. 
 
3.35. Notification of Claim means the process of intimating a claim to the Insurer or TPA through any of the 
recognized modes of communication. 
 
3.36. Out-Patient (OPD) Treatment  means treatment in which the insured visits a clinic/ hospital or 
associated facility like a consultation room for d iagnosis and treatment based on the ad vice of a medical 
practitioner. The insured is not admitted as a day care or in-patient. 
 
3.37. Pre-Existing  Disease  (PED):  Pre  existing  disease  means  any  condition,  ailment,  injury  or disease 
 
i. That is/are  diagnosed  by  a physician  within  48 months  prior to the effective date of the  policy  issued 
by the insurer or its reinstatement or 
ii. For  which  medical  advice  or  treatment  was  recom mended  by,  or  recei ved  from,   a  physician  
within 48  months  prior to the effective  date of the  policy issued by the insurer or  its  reinstatement. 
 
3.38. Pre-hospitalisation Medical Expenses means medical expenses incurred during the period of 30days 
preceding the hospitalisation of the Insured Person, provided that: 
i. Such  Medical  Expenses  are  incurred  for the  same condit ion  for  which  the  Insu red  Person 's  
Hospitalisation  was  required,  and 
ii. The   In-patient   Hospitalisation   claim   for   such   Hospitalisation   is   admissible   by   the  Insurance 
Company. 
 
3.39. Post-hospitalisation Medical Expenses means medical expenses incurred duri ng the period  of 60  
days immediately after the insured person is discharged from the hospital provided that: 

--- PAGE 5 ---

Policy Document 
Product- Arogya Sanjeevani, Niva Bupa Health Insurance Co. Ltd.  |  UIN- NBHHLIP22151V012122   Page 5 of 26 
The name of the Company has changed from Max Bupa Health Insurance Company Limited to Niva Bupa Health Insurance 
Company Limited effective 5th July, 2021 
   
Internal 
 
i. Such  Medical  Expenses  are  for the  same  condition  for  which  the  insured  person 's hospitalisation  
was required, and 
ii. The inpatient hospitalisation claim for such hospitalisation is admissi ble by the Insurance Company. 
 
3.40. Policy means these Policy wordings, the Policy Schedule and any applicable endorsements or 
extensions attaching to or forming part thereof. The Policy contains details of the extent of cover avai lable 
to the Insured person, what is excluded from the cover and the terms & conditions on which the Policy is 
issued to the Insured person. 
 
3.41. Policy period means period of one policy year as mentioned in the schedule for which the Pol icy is 
issued. 
 
3.42. Policy Schedule means the Policy Schedule attached to and forming part of Policy. 
 
3.43. Policy year means a period of twelve months beginning from the date of commencement of the policy 
period and ending on the last day of such twelve-month period.  For the purpose of subsequent years, policy 
year shall mean a period of twelve months commencing from the end of the previous policy year and lapsing 
on the last day of such twelve-month period, till the policy period, as mentioned in the schedule. 
 
3.44. Portability means the right accorded to an individual health insurance policy holder (includi ng all 
members under family cover), to transfer the credit gained for pre -existing conditi ons and  time bound 
exclusions, from one insurer to another insurer.  
 
3.45. Qualified Nurse means a person who holds a valid registration from the Nursing Council of India or the 
Nursing Council of any state in India. 
 
 
3.46. Renewal: Renewal means the terms on which the contract of insurance can be renewed on mutual 
consent with  a provision  of grace  period  for treating  the  renewal  continuous  for the purpose of gaining 
credit for pre-existing diseases, time-bound exclusions and for all waiting periods . 
 
3.47. Room Rent means the amount charged by a hospital towards Room and Boarding expenses and shall 
include the associated medical expenses. 
 
3.48. Sub-limit means a cost sharing requirement under a health insurance policy in which an insurer wouId 
not be Iiable to pay any amount in excess of the pre-defined Iimit. 
 
3.49. Sum Insured means the pre-defined limit specified in the Policy Schedule. Sum Insured and Cumulative 
Bonus represents the maximum, total and cumulative liability for any and all claims made u nder the Policy, 
in respect of that Insured Person (on Individual basis) or all Insured Persons (on Floater basis) during the 
Policy Year. 
 
3.50. Surgery or Surgical Procedure  means manual and/or operative procedure(s) required for treatment  
of  an  illness  or  injury,  correction  of  deformities  and  defects,  diagnosis  and  cure  of diseases, relief of 
suffering and prolongation  of life, performed  in a hospital or day care centre by a med ical practitioner. 
 
3.51. Third Party Administrator (TPA) means a Company registered with the Authority, and engaged by an 
insurer, for a fee or by whatever name called and as may be mentioned i n the health services agreement, 
for providing health services. 
 
3.52. Waiting Period  means a period from the inception of this Policy during which specified 
diseases/treatments are not cov ered. On completion of the period, diseases/treatments shall be covered 
provided the Policy has been continuously renewed without any break. 
 
  
 
4. COVERAGE 
 
The covers  listed  below  are  in -built Policy  benefits  and  shall  be  available  to  all  Insured Persons  in 
accordance with the procedures set out in this Policy . 

--- PAGE 6 ---

Policy Document 
Product- Arogya Sanjeevani, Niva Bupa Health Insurance Co. Ltd.  |  UIN- NBHHLIP22151V012122   Page 6 of 26 
The name of the Company has changed from Max Bupa Health Insurance Company Limited to Niva Bupa Health Insurance 
Company Limited effective 5th July, 2021 
   
Internal 
 
 
4.1. Hospitalization 
The  Company  shall  indemnify  medical  expenses  incurred  for  Hospitalization  of  the  Insured   Person during 
the Policy year , up to the Sum Insured and Cumulative Bonus specified  in the policy schedule, for, 
i. Room Rent, Boarding, Nu rsing Expenses as provided by the Hospital/ Nu rsing Home up to 2% of the 
sum insured subject to maximum of Rs.5000/- per day. 
ii. Intensive Care Unit (ICU) / Intensive Cardiac Car e Unit (ICCU) expenses up to 5% of sum insured 
subject to maximum of Rs. 10,000/- per day. 
iii. Surgeon, Anesthetist , Medical  Practitioner , Consultants, Specialist Fees whether  paid  directly  to the 
treating doctor / surgeon  or to the hospital 
iv. Anesthesia, blood, oxygen, operation theatre charges, surgical appliances, medicines and drugs, costs 
towards diagnostics, diagnostic imaging modalities and such similar other expenses. 
 
4.1.1 Other expenses: 
i. Expenses incurred on treatment of cataract subject to the sub limits 
ii. Dental treatment, necessitated  due to disease or injury 
iii. Plastic surgery necessitated due to disease or injury 
iv. All the day care treatments 
v. Expenses incurred on road Ambulance subject to a maximum of Rs.2000/ - per 
hospitalisation. 
 
Note: 
1. Expenses of Hospitalization for a mi nimum period of 24 consecuti ve hours only sha ll be admissible. 
However, the time limit shall not apply in respect of Day Care Treatment. 
2. If the Insured Person is admitted in a room / ICU / ICCU at rates exceeding the aforesaid limits, then 
We shall be liable to pay only a pro-rated portion of the total Associated Medical Expenses (including 
surcharge or taxes thereon) as per the following formula: 
         (eligible Room limit / Room Rent actually incurred) * total Associated Me dical Expenses 
 
Associated Medical Expenses shall include Room Rent, nursing charges, Medical Practitioners’ fees 
and operation theatre charges 
 
4.2. AYUSH Treatment 
The Company shall indemnify medical expenses incurred for in patient care treatment under Ayurveda, Yoga  
and  Naturopathy, Unani, Siddha and Homeopathy systems of medicines during each Policy Year up to the Iimit 
of sum insured as specified in the policy schedule in any AYUSH Hospita l. 
 
4.3. Cataract Treatment 
The Company shall indemnify medical expenses incurred  for  treatment  of Cataract, subject  to a  limit of 25%  
of Sum  Insured  or Rs.40,000/-,  whichever  is  lower,  per each eye  in  one  policy year. 
 
4.4. Pre Hospitalization 
The company shall indemnify pre-hospitalization medical expenses incurred, related to an adm issible 
hospitalization requ iring i n patient care, for a fixed period of 30 days prior to the  date  of admissible 
hospitalization covered  under the policy. 
 
4.5. Post Hospitalisation 
The company shall indemn ify post -hospitalization med ical  expenses  incurred,  related  to  an  admissible 
hospitalization requiring in patient  care,  for  a  fixed  per iod  of  6 0  days  from  the  date  of  discharge  from 
the hospital, following an  admissible  hospitalization  covered  under the policy. 
 
4.6. The following procedures will be covered  (wherever  medically  indicated) either as  inpatient or as part  
of  day care  treatment  in  a  hospital  up  to  50%  of  Sum  Insured,  specified   in  the   policy schedule, during 
the  policy  period: 
A. Uterine Artery Embolization and HIFU  (High  Intensity Focused  Ultrasound) 
B. Balloon Sinuplasty 
C. Deep Brain Stimulation 
D. Oral Chemotherapy 
E. lmmunotherapy-  Monoclonal  Antibody to be given as injection 
F. Intra Vitreal Injections 

--- PAGE 7 ---

Policy Document 
Product- Arogya Sanjeevani, Niva Bupa Health Insurance Co. Ltd.  |  UIN- NBHHLIP22151V012122   Page 7 of 26 
The name of the Company has changed from Max Bupa Health Insurance Company Limited to Niva Bupa Health Insurance 
Company Limited effective 5th July, 2021 
   
Internal 
 
G. Robotic  Surgeries 
H. Stereotactic Radio Surgeries 
I. Bronchical Thermoplasty 
J. Vaporisation of the Prostrate (Green Laser treatment or Holmium  Laser T reatment) 
K. IONM-(Intra Operative Neuro Monitoring) 
L. Stem Cell Therapy: Hematopoietic stem cells for bone marrow transplant for haematological conditions 
to be covered. 
 
4.7. The expenses that are not covered in this policy are pl aced under List -I of Annexure -A. The l ist of 
expenses that are to be subsumed into room charges, or procedure charges or costs of treatment are placed 
under List-II, List-III and List-IV of Annexure-A respectively. 
 
 
5. CUMULATIVE BONUS (CB) 
 
Cumulative Bonus will be increased  by  5% i n  respect  of each  claim  free poli cy year  (where no claims are 
reported), provided the policy is renewed with  the company  without  a  break  subject  to  maximum  of 50% of  
the  sum  insured  under  the  current  policy  year.  If  a  claim  is  made  in  any  particular  year, the cumulative  
bonus  accrued  shall  be  red uced  at  the  same  rate  at  which  i t  has  accrued.  However, sum i nsured will 
be maintained and will not be reduced in the policy year. 
 
Notes: 
i. In case where the pol icy is on in dividual basis, the CB shall be add ed and available individually to the 
insured person if  no claim has been reported. CB shall reduce only in case of claim from the same 
Insured Person. 
ii. In case where the policy is on floater  basis , the  CB shall  be  added  and  available  to  the  family  on 
floater  basis , provided  no  clai m  has  been  reported  from  any  member  of the family.  CB shall 
reduce in case of claim from any of the Insured Persons. 
iii. CB shall be available only if the Policy is renewed / premium paid within the Grace Period . 
iv. If the Insured Persons  in the expiring policy  are c overed  on  an  individual  basis  as specified  in  the 
Policy Schedule and there is an accumulated  CB for such  Insured  Person  under  the expiring  policy, 
and such expiring policy  has  been  Renewed  on  a  floater  policy  basis  as  specified  in  the  Policy 
Schedule then the CB to be carried forward for credit in such Renewed  Policy shall  be the one that  is 
applicable to the lowest among  all the Insured  Persons. 
v. In case of floater policies where Insured Persons  Renew  their  expiring  polic y  by  splitting  the  Sum 
Insured in to two or more floater policies/ individual  policies or in cases where the policy is split due to 
the child attain ing the age of  25 years, the CB of the expiring policy sha ll be apportion ed to such 
Renewed  Policies  in  the  proportion  of the  Sum  Insured  of each  Renewed  Policy. 
vi. If the  Sum  Insured  has  been  reduced  at the time of  Renewal, the applicable  CB shall  be  reduced  
in the same proportion  to the Sum  Insured  in  current  Policy. 
vii. If  the  Sum  Insured  under  the  Policy  has  been   increased  at  the  time  of  Renewal  the  CB  shall  
be calculated  on  the Sum  Insured  of the last completed  Policy Year. 
viii. If a claim  is made  in  the expiring  Policy Year , and  is notified  to  Us after the acceptance  of Renewal 
premium  any  awarded  CB shall  be withdrawn. 
 
 
6. WAITING PERIOD 
 
The Company shall not be liable to make any payment under the policy in connection with or in respect of 
following expenses till the expiry of waiting period mentioned below: 
 
6.1. Pre-Existing Diseases (Code- Excl 01) 
a) Expenses related to the treatment of a pre-existing Disease (PED) and its direct complications shall be 
excluded until the expiry of 48 months of continuous coverage after the date of inception of the first 
policy with us. 
b) In  case  of  enhancement  of  sum   insured  the  exclusion  shall  apply  afresh  to  the  extent  of  
sum insured  increase. 
c) If the Insured Person is continuously covered without any break  as defined  under the portability 
norms of the extant  IRDAI  (Health  Insurance)  Regulations  then  waiting  period  for  the  same 
would be reduced to the extent of prior coverage. 

--- PAGE 8 ---

Policy Document 
Product- Arogya Sanjeevani, Niva Bupa Health Insurance Co. Ltd.  |  UIN- NBHHLIP22151V012122   Page 8 of 26 
The name of the Company has changed from Max Bupa Health Insurance Company Limited to Niva Bupa Health Insurance 
Company Limited effective 5th July, 2021 
   
Internal 
 
d) Coverage under the policy after the expiry of 48 months for any pre-existing disease is subject to the 
same being declared at the time of application and accepted by us. 
 
 
6.2. First Thirty Days Waiting Period (Code- Excl 03) 
a) Expenses related to the treatment of any illness within 30 days from the first policy commencement date 
shall be excluded except claims arising due to an accident, provided the same are covered. 
b) This exclusion  shall  not, however,  apply  if the  Insured  Person  has Continuous Coverage  for  more 
than  twelve  months. 
c) The within referred waiting period is made app licable to the enhanced sum insured in the event of 
granting higher sum  insured  subsequently. 
 
6.3. Specific Waiting Period (Code- Excl 02) 
a) Expenses related to the treatment of the following  listed  cond itions,  surgeries/treatments  shal l  be 
excluded until the expiry of 24/48 months of continuous coverage, as may be the case after the date o f 
inception  of the  first  policy  with  the  insurer.  This exclusion shall not be applicable for claims arising 
due to an accident. 
b) In case of enhancement of sum insu red the exclusion shall apply afresh to the extent of sum insured 
increase. 
c) If  any  of  the  specified  disease/ procedure  falls  under  the  waiting  period  specified  for  pre-existing 
diseases, then the longer of the two waiting periods shall apply. 
d) The waiting period for listed conditi ons shall apply eve n if contracted after the policy or declared and 
accepted without a specific exclusion. 
e) If the Insured Person is continuously covered without any break as defined under the applicable norms 
on portability stipulated by IRDAI, then waiting period for the same would be reduced to the extent of 
prior coverage. 
i) 24 Months waiting period 
A) Benign ENT disorders 
B) Tonsillectomy 
C) Adenoidectomy 
D) Mastoidectomy 
E) Tympanoplasty 
F) Hysterectomy 
G) All internal and external benign tumours, cysts, polyps of any kind, including benign  breast 
lumps 
H) Benign prostate hypertrophy 
I) Cataract  and  age related  eye ailments 
J) Gastric/ Duodenal  Ulcer 
K) Gout and Rheumatism 
L) Hernia of all types 
M) Hydrocele 
N) Non  Infective  Arthritis 
O) Piles, Fissures and Fistula in anus 
P) Pilonidal sinus, Sinusitis and  related  disorders 
Q) Prolapse  inter  Vertebral Disc and Spinal  Diseases  unless arising from accident 
R) Calculi in urinary system, Gall Bladder and Bile duct, excluding malignancy. 
S) Varicose Veins and Varicose Ulcers 
T) Internal Congenital Anomalies 
 
ii) 48 Months waiting period 
A) Treatment  for joint  replacement  unless  arising  from  accident 
B) Age-related  Osteoarthritis & Osteoporosis 
 
 
 
7. EXCLUSIONS 
 
The Company shall not be liable to make any payment under the policy, in respect of any expenses incurred in 
connection with or in respect of: 
 

--- PAGE 9 ---

Policy Document 
Product- Arogya Sanjeevani, Niva Bupa Health Insurance Co. Ltd.  |  UIN- NBHHLIP22151V012122   Page 9 of 26 
The name of the Company has changed from Max Bupa Health Insurance Company Limited to Niva Bupa Health Insurance 
Company Limited effective 5th July, 2021 
   
Internal 
 
7.1. Investigation & Evaluation (Code- Excl04) 
a) Expenses related to any admission primarily for diagnostics and evaluation purposes. 
b) Any diagnostic expenses which are not related or not incidental to the current diagnosis and treatment. 
 
7.2. Rest Cure, rehabilitation and respite care (Code- Excl05) 
a) Expenses  related  to  any  admission  primarily  for  enforced  bed   rest  and  not  for  receiving treatment. 
This also includes: 
i) Custodial care either at home or in a  nursing facility for  personal  care  such  as  help  with 
activities of daily living such as  bathing, dressing, moving around either by skilled nurses or 
assistant  or  non-skilled  persons. 
ii) Any services for people who are terminally ill to address physical, social, emotional and spiritual 
needs. 
 
7.3. Obesity/ Weight Control (Code- Excl06) 
Expenses related to the surgical treatment of obesity that does not fulfil all the below conditions: 
1) Surgery to be conducted is upon the advice of the Doctor. 
2) The surgery/ Procedure conducted should be supported by clinical protocols . 
3) The member has to be 18 years of age or older and 
4) Body  Mass  Index  (BMI):  
a) greater than or equal to 40 or 
b) greater than or equal to 35 in conjunction with any of the following severe co-morbidities following 
failure of less invasive methods of weight loss: 
i) Obesity-related cardiomyopathy  
ii) Coronary heart disease 
iii) Severe Sleep Apnea 
iv) Uncontrolled Type 2 Diabetes 
 
7.4. Change-of-Gender treatments (Code- Excl07) 
 Expenses related to any treatment, including surgical management, to change  characteristics of the 
body to those of the opposite sex. 
 
7.5. Cosmetic or plastic Surgery (Code- Excl08) 
Expenses for cosmetic or plastic surgery or  any  treatment  to  change  appearance  unless  for 
reconstruction  following  an  Accident,  Burn(s)  or  Cancer  or  as  part  of  medically  necessary  
treatment to remove a direct and immediate health risk t o the  insured.  For this to be considered a 
medical necessity, it must be certified by the attending Medical Practitioner. 
 
7.6. Hazardous or Adventure sports (Code- Excl09) 
Expenses related to any treatment necessitated due to participation as a professional in hazardous or 
adventure sports, including but not limited to, para-jumping, rock climbing, mountaineering, rafting, motor 
racing, horse racing or scuba diving, hand gliding, sky diving, deep-sea diving. 
 
7.7. Breach of law (Code- Excl10) 
Expenses for treatment directly arising from or consequent u pon any Insured Person committing or 
attempting to commit a breach of law with criminal intent. 
 
7.8. Excluded Providers (Code-Excl11) 
Expenses incurred towards treatment in any hospital or  by  any  Medical  Practitioner  or  any  other 
provider   specifically   excluded   by   the   Insurer   and   disclosed   in   its   website/  notified   to   the 
policyholders are  not admissible. However, in case of life threatening situations or following an accident, 
expenses up to the stage of stabilization are payable but not the complete claim.  
 
7.9. Treatment for, Alcoholism, drug or substance abuse or any addictive condition and consequences 
thereof (Code- Excl12) 
 
7.10. Treatments received in heath hydros, nature cure clinics, spas or similar establishments or private beds 
registered as a nursing home attached to such establishments or where admission is arranged wholly 
or partly for domestic reasons.  (Code- Excl13) 
 

--- PAGE 10 ---

Policy Document 
Product- Arogya Sanjeevani, Niva Bupa Health Insurance Co. Ltd.  |  UIN- NBHHLIP22151V012122   Page 10 of 
26 
The name of the Company has changed from Max Bupa Health Insurance Company Limited to Niva Bupa Health Insurance 
Company Limited effective 5th July, 2021 
   
Internal 
 
7.11. Dietary supplements and substances  that  can  be  purchased  without  prescription,  including  but not 
limited to  Vitamins,  minerals  and  organic  substances  unless  prescribed  by  a  medical practitioner 
as part of hospitalization  claim or day care procedure (Code- Excl14) 
 
7.12. Refractive Error (Code- Excl15) 
Expenses related to the treatment for correction of eye sight due to refractive error less than 7.5 dioptres. 
 
7.13. Unproven Treatments (Code- Excl16) 
Expenses related to any u nproven treatment, services and supplies for or in connection with any 
treatment. Unproven  treatments are treatments, procedures or supplies that lack significant medical 
documentation to support their effectiveness. 
 
7.14. Sterility and Infertility (Code- Excl17) 
Expenses related to sterility and infertility. This includes: 
(i) Any type of sterilization 
(ii) Assisted Reproduction services including artificial insemination and advanced reproduct ive 
technologies such as  IVF, ZIFT, GIFT, lCSl 
(iii) Gestational Surrogacy 
(iv) Reversal of sterilization 
  
7.15. Maternity Expenses (Code- Excl18) 
i. Medical   treatment   expenses   traceable   to   child birth   (including com plicated deliveries and 
caesarean  sections  incurred  during  hospitalization) except ectopic pregna ncy; 
ii. Expenses towards miscarriage (unless due to an accident) and lawful medical termination of pregnancy 
during the policy period. 
 
 
7.16. War (whet her declared or not) and war  like  occu rrence  or  in vasion,  acts of  foreign  enem ies, 
hostilities, civil war, rebellion, revolutions, insurrections, mutiny, military or usurped power, seizure, 
capture, arrest, restraints  and  detainment  of all kinds. 
 
7.17. Nuclear, chemical or biological attack or weapons, contributed to, caused by, resulting from or from any 
other cause or event contributing concurrently or in any other seq uence to the loss, claim or expense. 
For the purpose of this exclusion 
 
a) Nuclear attack or  weapons means the use of any n uclear weapon or dev ice  or  waste  or 
combustion of nuclear fuel or the emission, discharge, d ispersal,  release  or  escape  of  fissi le/ 
fusion  material  emitting  a  level  of  radioactivity  capable  of causing  any  Illness,  incapacitating 
disablement  or death. 
b) Chemical  attack  or  weapons  means  the  emission,  discharge,  d ispersal,  release  or  escape  
of any solid, liquid or gaseous chemical compound which, when suitably  distributed,  is capable  of 
causing any  Illness,  incapacitating disablement  or death. 
c) Biological attack or weapon s means the emission, discharge, dispersal, release or escape of any 
pathogenic (disease producing) micro-organisms  and/or  biologically   produced   toxins (including 
genetically modified organisms and chemically synthesized toxins) wh ich are capable of causing 
any Illness, incapacitating disablement or death. 
 
7.18. Any expenses incurred on Domiciliary Hospitalization and OPD treatment 
 
7.19. Treatment taken outside the geographical limits of India. 
 
7.20. In respect of the existing diseases, disclosed by the insured and mentioned in the policy schedul e 
(based on insured's consent), policyholder is not entitled to get the coverage for specified ICD codes. 
 
 
8. MORATORIUM PERIOD 
 
After completion of eight continuous years under this policy no look back would be applied. This period of 
eight years is called as moratorium period. The moratorium would be appl icable for the sums insured of the 

--- PAGE 11 ---

Policy Document 
Product- Arogya Sanjeevani, Niva Bupa Health Insurance Co. Ltd.  |  UIN- NBHHLIP22151V012122   Page 11 of 
26 
The name of the Company has changed from Max Bupa Health Insurance Company Limited to Niva Bupa Health Insurance 
Company Limited effective 5th July, 2021 
   
Internal 
 
first policy and subsequently completion of eight continuous years would be applicable from date of 
enhancement of sums insured only on the enhanced limits. After the expiry of Moratorium Period no claim 
under this policy shall be contestable except for proven fraud and permanent exclusions specified in the policy 
contract. The policies would however be subject to all limits, sub limits, co -payments as per the policy. 
 
 
9. CLAIM PROCEDURE 
 
9.1. Procedure for Cashless claims: 
(i) Treatment may be taken in a network provider and is subject to pre authorization by the Company or 
its authorized TPA.  
(ii) Cashless request form available with the network provider and TPA shall be completed and sent to 
the Company/TPA for authorization.  
(iii) The Company/ TPA upon getting cashless request form and related medical information from the 
insured person/ network provider will issue pre-authorization letter to the hospital after verification.  
(iv) At the time of discharge, the insured person has to verify and sign the discharge papers, pay for non-
medical and inadmissible expenses.  
(v) The Company / TPA reserves the right to deny pre-authorization in case the insured person is unable 
to provide the relevant medical details.  
(vi) In case of denial of cashless access, the insured person may obtain the treatment as per treating 
doctor's advice and submit the claim documents to the Company / TPA for reimbursement.  
 
9.2. Procedure for reimbursement of claims: 
For  reimbursement  of claims  the  insured  person  may  sub mit the necessary  documents  to  TPA (if 
applicable)/ Company within the prescribed time limit as specified hereunder.  
 
SI No. Type of claim Prescribed Time Limit 
1.  Reimbursement of hospitalization, day care and 
pre-hospitalization expenses 
Within thirty days of date of discharge from  
Hospital 
2.  Reimbursement of post hospitalization  
expenses 
Within fifteen days from completion of  
post hospitalization treatment 
 
 
9.3. Notification of Claim 
Notice with full particulars shall be sent to the Company/ TPA (if applicable) as under: 
i. Within 24hours  from  the   date  of  emergency  hospitalization  required  or  before  the  Insured 
Person's discharge from Hospital, whichever is earlier. 
ii. At least 48 hours prior to admission in Hospital in case of a planned Hospitalization. 
 
 
9.4. Documents to be submitted: 
The reimbursement cla im is t o be supported with the following documents and submitted within the 
prescribed time limit. 
i. Duly Completed claim form 
ii. Photo  Identity  proof of the  patient 
iii. Medical practitioner's prescription advising admission  
iv. Original bills with itemized break-up 
v. Details of past medical history record, first and subsequent consultation 
vi. Payment receipts 
vii. Discharge summary (original) including complete medical history of the patient along with other 
details. 
viii. Investigation/ Diagnostic test reports etc. supported by the prescription from attending medical 
practitioner. 
ix. OT  notes  or  Surgeon's  certificate  giving  details  of  the  operation   performed   (for  surgical 
cases). 
x. Sticker/ Invoice of the Implants (original), wherever applicable. 
xi. NEFT Details (to enable  direct  credit of claim amount in bank  account) and cancelled cheque 
xii. KYC  (Identity proof  with  Address)  of  the  proposer,  where claim liability is above  Rs  1 Lakh as 
per AML Guidelines. 

--- PAGE 12 ---

Policy Document 
Product- Arogya Sanjeevani, Niva Bupa Health Insurance Co. Ltd.  |  UIN- NBHHLIP22151V012122   Page 12 of 
26 
The name of the Company has changed from Max Bupa Health Insurance Company Limited to Niva Bupa Health Insurance 
Company Limited effective 5th July, 2021 
   
Internal 
 
xiii. Legal heir/succession certificate, wherever applicable. 
xiv. Any other relevant document required by Company/ TPA for assessment of the claim. 
xv. Age / Identity proof document of Insured Person in case of claim approved under Cashless Facility 
(not required if submitted at the time of pre-authorization request) and Policyholder in case of 
Reimbursement claim 
a. Self attested copy of valid age proof (passport / driving license / PAN card / class X certificate / 
birth certificate) 
b. Self attested copy of identity proof (passport / driving license / PAN card / voter identity card) 
c. Recent passport size photograph  
xvi. For Medico-legal cases (MLC) or in case of Accident:  
a. MLC/ Panchnama / First Information Report (FIR) copy attested by the concerned Hospital / 
police station (if applicable).  
b. Original self-narration of incident in absence of MLC / FIR.  
 
 
Note: 
1. The company shall only accept bills/invoices/medical treatment related  documents only in th e Insured 
Person's name for whom the claim is submitted. 
2. In the event of a claim lodged under the Policy and the original documents having been submitted to any  
other  insurer,  the  Company  shall  accept  the  copy  of  the  documents  and  claim  settlement advice, 
duly certified  by  the other insurer subject to satisfaction of the Company. 
3. Any delay in notification or submission may be condoned on merit where delay is proved to be for reasons 
beyond the control of the Insured Person. 
 
9.5. Co-payment 
Each and every claim u nder the  Policy  shal l  be  subject  to  a  Copayment  of  5%  applicable  to  claim 
amount admissible  and  payable as  per  the terms  and  conditions of the  Policy. The amount payable shall 
be after deduction of the copayment. 
 
9.6. Claim Settlement (provision for Penal Interest) 
i. The Company shall settle or reject a claim, as the case may be, within 30 days from the dat e of 
receipt of last necessary document. 
ii. ln the case of delay in the payment of a claim, the Company shall be liable to pay interest to the 
policyholder from the date of receipt of last necessary document to the date of payment of claim at 
a rate 2% above the bank rate. 
iii. However, where the circumstances of a claim warrant an investigation in the opinion of the 
Company, it shall initiate and complete such investigation at the earliest, in any case not later than 
30 days from the date of receipt of last necess ary document- ln such cases, the Company shall 
settle or reject the claim within 45 days from the date of receipt of last necessary document.  
iv. ln case of delay beyond stipulated 45 days, the Company shall be liable to pay interest to the 
policyholder at a rate 2% above the bank rate from the date of receipt of last necessary document 
to the date of payment of claim. 
(Explanation: "Bank rate" shall mean the rate fixed by the Reserve Bank of lndia (RBl) at the 
beginning of the financial year in which claim has fallen due) 
v.  
 
9.7. Payment of Claim 
All claims under the policy shall be paid in Indian currency only. 
 
 
10. GENERAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS 
 
10.1. Disclosure of Information 
The Policy shall be void and all premium paid thereon shall be forfeited to the Company in the 
event of misrepresentation, mis-description or non-disclosure of any material fact by the policyholder 
 

--- PAGE 13 ---

Policy Document 
Product- Arogya Sanjeevani, Niva Bupa Health Insurance Co. Ltd.  |  UIN- NBHHLIP22151V012122   Page 13 of 
26 
The name of the Company has changed from Max Bupa Health Insurance Company Limited to Niva Bupa Health Insurance 
Company Limited effective 5th July, 2021 
   
Internal 
 
(Explanation: “Material facts” for the purpose of this policy shall mean all relevant information 
sought by the company in the proposal form and other connected documents to enable it to take 
informed decision in the context of underwriting the risk). 
 
10.2. Condition Precedent to Admission of Liability 
The terms and conditions of the policy must be fulfilled by the insured person for the Company to make any 
payment for claim(s) arising under the policy. 
 
 
 
10.3. Material Change 
The Insured shall notify the Company in writing of any material change in the risk in relation to the declaration 
made in the proposal form or medical  examination report at each Renewal and the Company may, adjust 
the scope of cover and /or premium, if necessary, accordingly. 
 
10.4. Records to be Maintained 
The Insured person shall keep an accurate record containing all relevant medical records and shall allo w 
the Company or its representatives to inspect such records. The Policyholder or Insured Person shall furnish 
such information as the Company may require for settlement of any claim under the Policy, within reasonable 
time limit and within the time limit specified in the Policy. 
 
10.5. Complete Discharge 
Any payment to the policyholder, insured person or his/ her nominees or his/ her legal representative or 
assignee or to the Hospital, as the case may be, for any benefit under the policy shall be a valid discharge 
towards payment of claim by the Company to the extent of that amount for the particular claim . 
 
10.6. Notice and Communication 
i. Any notice, direction, instruction or any other communication related to the Policy should be made 
in writing. 
ii. Such communication shall be sent to the address of the Company or through any other electronic 
modes specified in the Policy Schedule. 
iii. The Company shall communicate to the Insured at the address or through any other electronic mode 
mentioned in the schedule. 
 
10.7. Territorial Limit 
All medical treatment for the purpose of this insurance will have to be taken in India only.  
 
10.8. Multiple Policies 
i. ln case of multiple policies taken by an insured person during a period from one or more insurers to 
indemnify treatment costs, the insured person shall have the right to require a settlement of his/her 
claim in terms of any of his/her policies. ln all such cases the insurer chosen by the insured person 
shall be obliged to settle the claim as long as the claim is within the limits of and according to the 
terms of the chosen policy. 
ii. lnsured person having multiple policies shall also have the right to prefer claims under this policy for 
the amounts disallowed under any other policy / policies even if the sum insured is not exhausted. 
Then the insurer shall independently settle the claim subject to the terms and conditions of this 
policy. 
iii. lf the amount to be claimed exceeds the sum insured under a single policy, the insured person shall 
have the right to choose insurer from whom he/she wants to claim the balance amount.  
iv. iv. Where an insured person has policies from more than one insurer to cover the same risk on 
indemnity basis, the insured person shall only be indemnified the treatment costs in accordance with 
the terms and conditions of the chosen policy 
 
10.9. Fraud 
lf any claim made by the insured person, is in any respect fraudulent, or if any false statement, or declaration 
is made or used in support thereof, or if any fraudulent means or devices are used by the insured person or 
anyone acting on his/her behalf to obtain any benefit under this policy, all benefits under this policy and the 
premium paid shall be forfeited. 
 

--- PAGE 14 ---

Policy Document 
Product- Arogya Sanjeevani, Niva Bupa Health Insurance Co. Ltd.  |  UIN- NBHHLIP22151V012122   Page 14 of 
26 
The name of the Company has changed from Max Bupa Health Insurance Company Limited to Niva Bupa Health Insurance 
Company Limited effective 5th July, 2021 
   
Internal 
 
Any amount already paid against claims made under this policy but which are found fraudulent later shall be 
repaid by all recipient(s)/policyholder(s), who has made that particular claim, who shall be jointly and 
severally liable for such repayment to the insurer. 
 
For the purpose of this clause, the expression "fraud" means any of the following acts committed by the 
insured person or by his agent or the hospital/doctor/any other party acting on behalf of the insured person, 
with intent to deceive the insurer or to induce the insurer to issue an insurance policy: a) the suggestion, as 
a fact of that which is not true and which the insured person does not believe to be true; b) the active 
concealment of a fact by the insured person having knowledge o r belief of the fact; c) any other act fitted to 
deceive; and d) any such act or omission as the law specially declares to be fraudulent  
 
The Company shall not repudiate the claim and / or forfeit the policy benefits on the ground of Fraud, if the 
insured person / beneficiary can prove that the misstatement was true to the best of his knowledge and there 
was no deliberate intention to suppress the fact or that such misstatement of or suppression of material fact 
are within the knowledge of the insurer.. 
 
10.10. Cancellation 
I. The policyholder may cancel this policy by giving 15 days' written notice and in such an event, the 
Company shall refund premium for the unexpired policy period as detailed below.  
 
Notwithstanding anything contained herein or otherwise, no refunds of premium shall be made in respect 
of Cancellation where, any claim has been admitted or has been lodged or any benefit has been availed 
by the insured person under the policy. 
Refund of Premium (basis Policy Period) 
 Refund % 
  Timing of Cancellation          1 year 
Up to 30 days 75.00% 
31 to 90 days 50.00% 
3 to 6 months 25.00% 
6 to 12 months 0.00% 
 
The above grid shall be applicable for ‘Yearly / Annual’ premium payment frequency. For Half Yearly  or 
Quarterly premium payment frequencies, the Company shall refund premium as per below grid: 
No. of completed 
months at the 
time of 
cancellation 
Refund % 
Half-Yearly Quarterly 
0 62.5% 50% 
1 33.3% 16.7% 
2 25% 0% 
3 8.3% 50% 
4 4.2% 16.7% 
5 0% 0% 
6 62.5% 50% 
7 33.3% 16.7% 
8 25% 0% 
9 8.3% 50% 
10 4.2% 16.7% 
11 0% 0% 
 
For monthly premium payment frequency, no refund shall be applicable for cancellation of the Policy.  
II. The Company may cancel the policy at any time on grounds of misrepresentation non-
disclosure of material facts, fraud by the insured person by giving 15 days' written notice. 
There would be no refund of premium on cancellation on grounds of misrepresentation, 
non-disclosure of material facts or fraud. 
 

--- PAGE 15 ---

Policy Document 
Product- Arogya Sanjeevani, Niva Bupa Health Insurance Co. Ltd.  |  UIN- NBHHLIP22151V012122   Page 15 of 
26 
The name of the Company has changed from Max Bupa Health Insurance Company Limited to Niva Bupa Health Insurance 
Company Limited effective 5th July, 2021 
   
Internal 
 
 
10.11. Automatic change in Coverage under the policy 
The coverage for the Insured person(s) shall automatically terminate: 
1. In the case of his/her (Insured Person’s) demise: 
However the cover shall continue for the remaining Insured Persons till the end of the Policy Period. The 
other Insured Persons m ay also apply to renew the policy. In case, the other insured person is minor, 
the policy shall be renewed only through any one of his/her natural guardian or guardian appointed by 
court. All relevant particulars in respect of such person (including his/he r relationship with the insured 
person) must be submitted to the company along with the application. Provided no claim has been made, 
and termination takes place on account of death of the insured person, pro -rata   refund of premium of 
the deceased insured person for the balance period of the policy will be effective. 
2. Upon exhaustion of sum insured and cumulative bonus, for the policy year. However, the policy is subject 
to renewal on the due date as per the applicable terms and conditions.  
 
 
10.12. Territorial Jurisdiction 
All disputes or differences under or in relation to the interpretation of terms, conditions, validity, construct, 
limitations and/or exclusions contained in the Policy shall be determined by the Indian Court and according 
to Indian law. 
 
 
10.13. Arbitration 
i. If any dispute or difference shall arise as to the quantum to be paid  by  the  Policy, (liability  being 
otherwise admitted) such difference shall independently of all other questions, be referred to the decision 
of a sole arbitrator to be appointed in writing by the parties here to or if they cannot agree upon a single 
arbitrator within thirty days of any party invoking arbitration, the same shall be referred to a panel of 
three arbitrators, comprising two arbitra tors, one to be appointed by each of the parties to the 
dispute/difference and the third arbitrator to be appointed by such two arbitrators and arbitration shall be 
conducted under and in accordance with the provisions of the Arbitration and Conciliation A ct 1996, as 
amended by Arbitration and Conciliation (Amendment) Act, 2015 (No. 3 of 2016).   
ii. It is clearly agreed and understood that no difference or dispute shall be preferable to arbitration as 
herein before provided, if the Company has disputed or not accepted liability under or in respect of the 
Policy. 
iii. It is hereby expressly stipulated and declared that it shall be a condition precedent to any right of action 
or suit upon the policy that award by such arbitrator/ arbitrators of the amount of expenses shall be first 
obtained. 
 
 
10.14. Migration 
The insured person will have the option to migrate the policy to other health insurance products/plans offered 
by the company by applying for migration of the policy atleast 30 days before the policy renewal date as per 
IRDAI guidelines on Migration. lf such person is presently covered and has been continuously covered 
without any lapses under any health insurance product/plan offered by the company, the insured person will 
get the accrued continuity benefits in waiting periods as per IRDAI guidelines on migration.  
 
For Detailed Guidelines on migration, kindly refer the link 
https://www.irdai.gov.in/ADMINCMS/cms/whatsNew_Layout.aspx?page=PageNo3987&flag=1  
 
10.15. Portability 
The insured person will have the option to port the policy to other insurers by applying to such insurer to port 
the entire policy along with all the members of the family, if any, at least 45 days before, but not earlier than 
60 days from the policy renewal date as per IRDAI guidelines related to portability. lf such person is presently 
covered and has been continuously covered without any lapses under any health insurance policy with an 
lndian General/Health insurer, the proposed insured person will get the accrued continuity benefits in waiting 
periods as per IRDAI guidelines on portability 
 

--- PAGE 16 ---

Policy Document 
Product- Arogya Sanjeevani, Niva Bupa Health Insurance Co. Ltd.  |  UIN- NBHHLIP22151V012122   Page 16 of 
26 
The name of the Company has changed from Max Bupa Health Insurance Company Limited to Niva Bupa Health Insurance 
Company Limited effective 5th July, 2021 
   
Internal 
 
For Detailed Guidelines on portability, kindly refer the link 
https://www.irdai.gov.in/ADMINCMS/cms/whatsNew_Layout.aspx?page=PageNo3987&flag=1  
 
10.16. Renewal of Policy 
The policy shall ordinarily be renewable except on grounds of fraud, misrepresentation by 
the insured person.  
I. The Company shall endeavor to give notice for renewal. However, the Company is not 
under obligation to give any notice for renewal. 
II. Renewal shall not be denied on the ground that the insured person had made a claim or 
claims in the preceding policy years. 
III. Request for renewal along with requisite premium shall be received by the Company 
before the end of the policy period. 
IV. At the end of the policy period, the policy shall terminate and can be renewed within the 
Grace Period of 30 days to maintain continuity of benefits without break in policy. 
Coverage is not available during the grace period. 
V. No loading shall apply on renewals based on individual claims experience. 
 
 
10.17. Premium Payment in Instalments 
If the insured person has opted for Payment  of Premium on an instalment basis i.e. Half Yearly, Quarterly 
or Monthly, as mentioned in Your Policy Schedule/ Certificate of Insurance, the following conditions shall 
apply (notwithstanding any terms contrary elsewhere in the Policy). 
i. Grace Period of 15 days would be given to pay the instalment premium due for the Policy. 
ii. During such grace period, Coverage will not be available from the due date of instalment premium 
till the date of receipt of premium by Company. 
iii. The insured person will get the accrued continuity benefit in respect of the “Waiting Periods”, 
“Specified Waiting Periods” in the event of payment of premium within the stipulated grace period.  
iv. No interest will be charged if the instalment premium is not paid on due date 
v. In case of instalment premium due not received within the Grace Period, the Policy will get cancelled. 
vi. In the event of a claim, all subsequent premium instalments shall immediately become due and 
payable. 
vii. The company has the right to recover and deduct all the pending instalments from the claim amount 
due under the policy. 
 
10.18. Possibility of Revision of Terms of the Policy Including the Premium Rates  
The Company, with prior approval of IRDAI, may revise or modify the terms of the Policy including the 
premium rates. The insured person shall be notified three months before the changes are affected.  
 
10.19. Free Look Period 
The Free Look Period shall be applicable on new individual health insurance policies and not on renewals 
or at the time of porting/migrating the policy.  
The insured person shall be allowed free look period of fifteen days from date of receipt of the policy 
document to review the terms and conditions of the policy, and to return the same if not acceptable.  
lf the insured has not made any claim during the Free Look Period, the insured shall be entitled to  
a. a refund of the premium paid less any expenses incurred by the Company on medical examination of the 
insured person and the stamp duty charges or 
b. where the risk has already commenced and the option of return of the policy is exercised by the insured 
person, a deduction towards the proportionate risk premium for period of cover or  
i. c. Where only a part of the insurance coverage has commenced, such proportionate premium 
commensurate with the insurance coverage during such period. 
 
 
10.20. Endorsements (Changes in Policy) 
i. This policy constitutes the complete contract of insurance. This Policy cannot be modified by anyone 
(including an insurance agent or broker) except the company. Any ch ange made by the company 
shall be evidenced by a written endorsement signed and stamped. 

--- PAGE 17 ---

Policy Document 
Product- Arogya Sanjeevani, Niva Bupa Health Insurance Co. Ltd.  |  UIN- NBHHLIP22151V012122   Page 17 of 
26 
The name of the Company has changed from Max Bupa Health Insurance Company Limited to Niva Bupa Health Insurance 
Company Limited effective 5th July, 2021 
   
Internal 
 
ii. The policyholder may be changed on ly at the time of renewal. The new policyholder must be  the 
legal heir/immediate family member. Such change would be subject to acceptance by the company 
and payment of premium (if any). The renewed Policy shall be treated as having been  renewed 
without break. 
iii. The policyholder may be changed only at the time of the renewal. The new policyholder must be the 
legal heir/ immediate family member. Such change would be subject to acceptance by the company 
and payment of premium (if any). The renewed Policy shall be treated as having been renewed 
without a break. 
 
The policyholder may be changed during the Policy Period only in case of his/her demise or him/her 
moving out of India. 
 
10.21. Change of Sum Insured 
Sum insured can be changed (increased/ decreased) only at the time of renewa l or at any time, subject  to 
underwriting by the Company. For any increase in SI, the waiting period shall start afresh on ly for the 
enhanced portion of the sum insured. 
 
10.22. Terms and conditions of the Policy 
The terms and conditions contained herein and in the Policy Schedule shall be deemed to form part of the 
Policy and shall be read together as one document. 
 
10.23. Nomination 
The policyholder is required at the inception of the policy to make a nomination for the purpose of payment 
of claims under the policy in the event of death of the policyholder. Any change of nomination shall be 
communicated to the company in writing and such change shall be effective only when an endorsement on 
the policy is made. ln the event of death of the policyholder, the Company will pay the nominee {as named 
in the Policy Schedule/Policy Certificate/Endorsement (if any)} and in case there  is no subsisting nominee, 
to the legal heirs or legal representatives of the policyholder whose discharge shall be treated as full and 
final discharge of its liability under the policy. 
 
10.24. Withdrawal of Policy  
ln the likelihood of this product being withdrawn in future, the Company will intimate the 
insured person about the same 90 days prior to expiry of the policy.  
lnsured Person will have the option to migrate to similar health insurance product available 
with the Company at the time of renewal with all the accrued continuity benefits such as 
cumulative bonus, waiver of waiting period as per IRDAI guidelines, provided the policy has 
been maintained without a break. 
 
 
11. REDRESSAL OF GRIEVANCE 
a. ln case of any grievance the insured person may contact the company through  
  
Website: www.nivabupa.com 
Toll free:  1860-500-8888 
E-mail:   customercare@nivabupa.com (Senior citizens may write to us at: 
seniorcitizensupport@nivabupa.com) 
Fax :  011-3090-2010 
Courier:  Customer Services Department 
  Niva Bupa Health Insurance Company Limited 
  2nd Floor, Plot No D-5 , Sec-59,  Noida , Gautam Buddh Nagar, Uttar Pradesh – 201301 
 
lnsured person may also approach the grievance cell at any of the comp any's branches with the details of 
grievance lf lnsured person is not satisfied with the redressal of grievance through one of the above methods, 
insured person may contact the grievance officer at Head – Customer Services 
 Niva Bupa Health Insurance Company Limited 
 2nd Floor, Plot No D-5 , Sec-59,  Noida , Gautam Buddh Nagar, Uttar Pradesh – 201301 
 Contact No: 1860-500-8888 

--- PAGE 18 ---

Policy Document 
Product- Arogya Sanjeevani, Niva Bupa Health Insurance Co. Ltd.  |  UIN- NBHHLIP22151V012122   Page 18 of 
26 
The name of the Company has changed from Max Bupa Health Insurance Company Limited to Niva Bupa Health Insurance 
Company Limited effective 5th July, 2021 
   
Internal 
 
 Fax No.: 011-3090-2010 
 Email ID: customercare@nivabupa.com 
 
For updated details of grievance officer, kindly refer the link https: //www.nivabupa.com/customer-care/health-
services/grievance-redressal.aspx 
 
If the Insured person is not satisfied with the above, they can escalate to GRO@ nivabupa.com.  
 
b. lf lnsured person is not satisfied with the redressal  of grievance through above methods, the insured 
person may also approach the office of lnsurance Ombudsman of the respective area/region for redressal of 
grievance as per lnsurance Ombudsman Rules 2017 ( at the addresses given in Annexure 1).  
c. Grievance may also be lodged at IRDAI lntegrated Grievance Management System - https://igms. 
irda.gov. in/ 
 
 
12. TABLE OF BENEFITS 
 
Name Arogya Sanjeevani Policy, Niva Bupa Health Insurance Co. Ltd.  
Product Type Individual/Floater 
Category of Cover Indemnity 
Sum Insured INR 50,000 to 10 Lacs (in multiples of INR 50,000) 
On Individual basis- SI shall apply to each individual family member 
On Floater basis- SI shall apply to the entire family 
Policy Period 1 year 
Eligibility Policy can be availed by persons between the age of 18 years to 65 years, as Proposer.  
Proposer with higher age can obtain policy for family, without covering self.  Policy can be  
availed for Self and the following family members 
i. Legally wedded spouse 
ii. Parents and Parents-in-law 
iii. Dependent Children (i.e. natural or legally adopted) between the age 3 months  
to 25 years. If the child above 18 years of age is financially independent, he or she  
shall be ineligible for coverage in the subsequent renewals. 
Grace Period For Yearly payment of mode, a fixed period of 30 days is to be allowed as Grace Period and  
for all other modes of payment a fixed period of 15 days be allowed as grace period.  
Hospitalisation  
Expenses 
Expenses of hospitalisation for a minimum period of 24 consecutive hours only shall be  
admissible.  
Time limit of 24 hours shall not apply when the treatment is undergone in a Day Care Centre.  
Pre Hospitalisation For 30 days prior to the date of hospitalisation 
Post Hospitalisation For 60 days from the date of discharge from the hospital 
Sublimit for room/  
doctors’ fees 
I. Room Rent, Boarding, Nursing Expenses all inclusive as provided by the  
Hospital/ Nursing Home up to 2% of the sum insured subject to a  
maximum of Rs.5,000/- per day. 
II. Intensive Care Unit (ICU) charges/ Intensive Cardiac Care Unit (ICCU)  
charges all inclusive as provided by the hospital/Nursing Home up to 5% of the  
sum insured subject to maximum of Rs.10,000/- per day 
Cataract Treatment Up to 25% of Sum Insured or Rs.40,000/-, whichever is lower, per eye, under one policy year. 
AYUSH Expenses incurred for Inpatient Care treatment under Ayurveda, Yoga and Naturopathy,  
Unani, Siddha and Homeopathy systems of medicines shall be covered up to sum insured, 
during each Policy year as specified in the policy schedule. 
Pre Existing Disease Only PEDs declared in the Proposal Form and accepted for coverage by the company  
shall be covered after a waiting period of 4 years. 
Cumulative Bonus Increase in the sum insured by 5% in respect of each claim free year subject to a maximum of  
50% of SI. In the event of claim the cumulative bonus shall be reduced at the same rate.  
Co pay 5% co pay on all claims 
 
 
 
 

--- PAGE 19 ---

Policy Document 
Product- Arogya Sanjeevani, Niva Bupa Health Insurance Co. Ltd.  |  UIN- NBHHLIP22151V012122   Page 19 of 
26 
The name of the Company has changed from Max Bupa Health Insurance Company Limited to Niva Bupa Health Insurance 
Company Limited effective 5th July, 2021 
   
Internal 
 
 
 
Annexure-A 
List I- Items for which coverage is not available in the policy 
 
Sl. No. Item 
1 BABY FOOD 
2 BABY UTILITIES CHARGES 
3 BEAUTY SERVICES 
4 BELTS/ BRACES 
5 BUDS 
6 COLD PACK/HOT PACK 
7 CARRY BAGS 
8 EMAIL / INTERNET CHARGES 
9 FOOD CHARGES (OTHER THAN PATIENT's DIET PROVIDED BY HOSPITAL)  
10 LEGGINGS 
11 LAUNDRY CHARGES 
12 MINERAL WATER 
13 SANITARY PAD  
14 TELEPHONE CHARGES 
15 GUEST SERVICES 
16 CREPE BANDAGE 
17 DIAPER OF ANY TYPE 
18 EYELET COLLAR 
19 SLINGS 
20 BLOOD GROUPING AND CROSS MATCHING OF DONORS SAMPLES 
21 SERVICE CHARGES WHERE NURSING CHARGE ALSO CHARGED 
22 TELEVISION CHARGES 
23 SURCHARGES 
24 ATTENDANT CHARGES 
25 EXTRA DIET OF PATIENT (OTHER THAN THAT WHICH FORMS PART OF BED 
CHARGE) 
26 BIRTH CERTIFICATE 
27 CERTIFICATE CHARGES 
28 COURIER CHARGES 
29 CONVEYANCE CHARGES 
30 MEDICAL CERTIFICATE 
31 MEDICAL RECORDS 
32 PHOTOCOPIES CHARGES 
33 MORTUARY CHARGES  
34 WALKING AIDS CHARGES 
35 OXYGEN CYLINDER (FOR USAGE OUTSIDE THE HOSPITAL)  
36 SPACER  
37 SPIROMETRE  
38 NEBULIZER KIT 
39 STEAM INHALER 
40 ARMSLING 
41 THERMOMETER 
42 CERVICAL COLLAR 
43 SPLINT 
44 DIABETIC FOOT WEAR 
45 KNEE BRACES (LONG/ SHORT/ HINGED)  
46 KNEE IMMOBILIZER/SHOULDER IMMOBILIZER 
47 LUMBO SACRAL BELT 
48 NIMBUS BED OR WATER OR AIR BED CHARGES 

--- PAGE 20 ---

Policy Document 
Product- Arogya Sanjeevani, Niva Bupa Health Insurance Co. Ltd.  |  UIN- NBHHLIP22151V012122   Page 20 of 
26 
The name of the Company has changed from Max Bupa Health Insurance Company Limited to Niva Bupa Health Insurance 
Company Limited effective 5th July, 2021 
   
Internal 
 
 
List II- Items that are to be subsumed into Room Charges 
 
49 AMBULANCE COLLAR 
50 AMBULANCE EQUIPMENT 
51 ABDOMINAL BINDER 
52 PRIVATE NURSES CHARGES- SPECIAL NURSING CHARGES  
53  SUGAR FREE Tablets 
54 CREAMS POWDERS LOTIONS (Toiletries are not payable, only prescribed medical 
pharmaceuticals payable) 
55 ECG ELECTRODES 
56 GLOVES 
57 NEBULISATION KIT 
58 ANY KIT WITH NO DETAILS MENTIONED [DELIVERY KIT, ORTHOKIT, 
RECOVERY KIT, ETC] 
59 KIDNEY TRAY 
60 MASK  
61 OUNCE GLASS 
62 OXYGEN MASK 
63 PELVIC TRACTION BELT  
64 PAN CAN 
65 TROLLY COVER 
66 UROMETER, URINE JUG 
67 AMBULANCE 
68 VASOFIX SAFETY 
Sl. No. Item 
1 BABY CHARGES (UNLESS SPECIFIED/INDICATED) 
2 HAND WASH 
3 SHOE COVER 
4 CAPS 
5 CRADLE CHARGES 
6 COMB 
7 EAU-DE-COLOGNE / ROOM FRESHNERS 
8 FOOT COVER 
9 GOWN 
10 SLIPPERS  
11 TISSUE PAPER 
12 TOOTH PASTE 
13 TOOTH BRUSH 
14 BED PAN 
15 FACE MASK 
16 FLEXI MASK 
17 HAND HOLDER 
18 SPUTUM CUP  
19 DISINFECTANT LOTIONS 
20 LUXURY TAX 
21 HVAC 
22 HOUSE KEEPING CHARGES 
23 AIR CONDITIONER CHARGES 
24 IM IV INJECTION CHARGES  
25 CLEAN SHEET 
26 BLANKET/WARMER BLANKET 
27 ADMISSION KIT 
28 DIABETIC CHART CHARGES 
29 DOCUMENTATION CHARGES / ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES 

--- PAGE 21 ---

Policy Document 
Product- Arogya Sanjeevani, Niva Bupa Health Insurance Co. Ltd.  |  UIN- NBHHLIP22151V012122   Page 21 of 
26 
The name of the Company has changed from Max Bupa Health Insurance Company Limited to Niva Bupa Health Insurance 
Company Limited effective 5th July, 2021 
   
Internal 
 
 
List III- Items that are to be subsumed into Procedure Charges 
 
 
List IV- Items that are to be subsumed into costs of treatment 
 
 
30 DISCHARGE PROCEDURE CHARGES 
31 DAILY CHART CHARGES 
32 ENTRANCE PASS / VISITORS PASS CHARGES 
33 EXPENSES RELATED TO PRESCRIPTION ON DISCHARGE 
34 FILE OPENING CHARGES 
35 INCIDENTAL EXPENSES / MISC. CHARGES (NOT EXPLAINED) 
36 PATIENT IDENTIFICATION BAND / NAME TAG 
37 PULSEOXYMETER CHARGES 
Sl. No. Item 
1 HAIR REMOVAL CREAM 
2 DISPOSABLES RAZORS CHARGES (for site preparations) 
3 EYE PAD 
4 EYE SHEILD 
5 CAMERA COVER 
6 DVD, CD CHARGES 
7 GAUSE SOFT 
8 GAUZE 
9 WARD AND THEATRE BOOKING CHARGES 
10 ARTHROSCOPY AND ENDOSCOPY INSTRUMENTS 
11 MICROSCOPE COVER  
12 SURGICAL BLADES, HARMONICSCALPEL,SHAVER 
13 SURGICAL DRILL 
14 EYE KIT  
15 EYE DRAPE 
16 X-RAY FILM 
17 BOYLES APPARATUS CHARGES 
18 COTTON 
19 COTTON BANDAGE 
20 SURGICAL TAPE 
21 APRON 
22 TORNIQUET  
23 ORTHOBUNDLE, GYNAEC BUNDLE 
Sl. No. Item 
1 ADMISSION/REGISTRATION CHARGES 
2 HOSPITALISATION FOR EVALUATION/ DIAGNOSTIC PURPOSE 
3 URINE CONTAINER 
4 BLOOD RESERVATION CHARGES AND ANTE NATAL BOOKING CHARGES  
5 BIPAP MACHINE 
6 CPAP/ CAPD EQUIPMENTS 
7 INFUSION PUMP– COST 
8 HYDROGEN PEROXIDE\SPIRIT\ DISINFECTANTS ETC 
9 NUTRITION PLANNING CHARGES - DIETICIAN CHARGES- DIET CHARGES  
10 HIV KIT 
11 ANTISEPTIC MOUTHWASH 
12 LOZENGES 
13 MOUTH PAINT 
14 VACCINATION CHARGES 
15 ALCOHOL SWABES 

--- PAGE 22 ---

Policy Document 
Product- Arogya Sanjeevani, Niva Bupa Health Insurance Co. Ltd.  |  UIN- NBHHLIP22151V012122   Page 22 of 
26 
The name of the Company has changed from Max Bupa Health Insurance Company Limited to Niva Bupa Health Insurance 
Company Limited effective 5th July, 2021 
   
Internal 
 
 
Annexure B 
 
The contact details of the Insurance Ombudsman offices are as below: 
 
 
 
16 SCRUB SOLUTION/STERILLIUM 
17 GLUCOMETER & STRIPS 
18 URINE BAG 

--- PAGE 23 ---

Policy Document 
Product- Arogya Sanjeevani, Niva Bupa Health Insurance Co. Ltd.  |  UIN- NBHHLIP22151V012122   Page 23 of 
26 
The name of the Company has changed from Max Bupa Health Insurance Company Limited to Niva Bupa Health Insurance 
Company Limited effective 5th July, 2021 
   
Internal 
 
Office Details Jurisdiction of Office  
Union Territory, District) 
AHMEDABAD - Shri Kuldip Singh 
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 
Jeevan Prakash Building, 6th floor, 
Tilak Marg, Relief Road, 
Ahmedabad – 380 001. 
Tel.: 079 - 25501201/02/05/06 
Email: bimalokpal.ahmedabad@cioins.co.in 
Gujarat, 
UT of Dadra & Nagar Haveli, 
Daman and Diu. 
BENGALURU - Smt. Neerja Shah 
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 
Jeevan Soudha Building,PID No. 57-27-N-19 
Ground Floor, 19/19, 24th Main Road, 
JP Nagar, Ist Phase, 
Bengaluru – 560 078. 
Tel.: 080 - 26652048 / 26652049 
Email: bimalokpal.bengaluru@cioins.co.in 
Karnataka. 
BHOPAL - Shri Guru Saran Shrivastava 
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 
Janak Vihar Complex, 2nd Floor, 
6, Malviya Nagar, Opp. Airtel Office, 
Near New Market, 
Bhopal – 462 003. 
Tel.: 0755 - 2769201 / 2769202 
Fax: 0755 - 2769203 
Email: bimalokpal.bhopal@cioins.co.in 
Madhya Pradesh 
Chhattisgarh. 
BHUBANESHWAR - Shri Suresh Chandra Panda 
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 
62, Forest park, 
Bhubneshwar – 751 009. 
Tel.: 0674 - 2596461 /2596455 
Fax: 0674 - 2596429 
Email: bimalokpal.bhubaneswar@cioins.co.in 
Orissa. 
CHANDIGARH - Dr. Dinesh Kumar Verma 
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 
S.C.O. No. 101, 102 & 103, 2nd Floor, 
Batra Building, Sector 17 – D, 
Chandigarh – 160 017. 
Tel.: 0172 - 2706196 / 2706468 
Fax: 0172 - 2708274 
Email: bimalokpal.chandigarh@cioins.co.in 
Punjab, 
Haryana (excluding Gurugram, Faridabad, 
Sonepat and Bahadurgarh), 
Himachal Pradesh, 
UT of Jammu & Kashmir, Ladakh and 
Chandigarh. 

--- PAGE 24 ---

Policy Document 
Product- Arogya Sanjeevani, Niva Bupa Health Insurance Co. Ltd.  |  UIN- NBHHLIP22151V012122   Page 24 of 
26 
The name of the Company has changed from Max Bupa Health Insurance Company Limited to Niva Bupa Health Insurance 
Company Limited effective 5th July, 2021 
   
Internal 
 
CHENNAI - Shri M. Vasantha Krishna 
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 
Fatima Akhtar Court, 4th Floor, 453, 
Anna Salai, Teynampet, 
CHENNAI – 600 018. 
Tel.: 044 - 24333668 / 24335284 
Fax: 044 - 24333664 
Email: bimalokpal.chennai@cioins.co.in 
Tamil Nadu,UT- 
Pondicherry Town and 
Karaikal (which are part of UT of Pondicherry). 
DELHI - Shri Sudhir Krishna 
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 
2/2 A, Universal Insurance Building, 
Asaf Ali Road, 
New Delhi – 110 002. 
Tel.: 011 - 23232481/23213504 
Email: bimalokpal.delhi@cioins.co.in 
Delhi & 
Following Districts of Haryana - Gurugram, 
Faridabad, Sonepat & Bahadurgarh. 
GUWAHATI - Shri Kiriti .B. Saha 
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 
Jeevan Nivesh, 5th Floor, 
Nr. Panbazar over bridge, S.S. Road, 
Guwahati – 781001(ASSAM). 
Tel.: 0361 - 2632204 / 2602205 
Email: bimalokpal.guwahati@cioins.co.in 
Assam, 
Meghalaya, 
Manipur, 
Mizoram, 
Arunachal Pradesh, 
Nagaland and Tripura. 
HYDERABAD - Shri I. Suresh Babu 
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 
6-2-46, 1st floor, "Moin Court", 
Lane Opp. Saleem Function Palace, 
A. C. Guards, Lakdi-Ka-Pool, 
Hyderabad - 500 004. 
Tel.: 040 - 23312122 
Fax: 040 - 23376599 
Email: bimalokpal.hyderabad@cioins.co.in 
Andhra Pradesh, 
Telangana, UT of 
Yanam and  
part of UT of Pondicherry. 
JAIPUR - Smt. Sandhya Baliga 
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 
Jeevan Nidhi – II Bldg., Gr. Floor, 
Bhawani Singh Marg, 
Jaipur - 302 005. 
Tel.: 0141 - 2740363 
Email: bimalokpal.jaipur@cioins.co.in 
Rajasthan. 
ERNAKULAM - Ms. Poonam Bodra 
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 
2nd Floor, Pulinat Bldg., 
Opp. Cochin Shipyard, M. G. Road, 
Ernakulam - 682 015. 
Tel.: 0484 - 2358759 / 2359338 
Fax: 0484 - 2359336 
Email: bimalokpal.ernakulam@cioins.co.in 
Kerala, UT of Lakshadweep, Mahe-a part of 
UT of Pondicherry. 

--- PAGE 25 ---

Policy Document 
Product- Arogya Sanjeevani, Niva Bupa Health Insurance Co. Ltd.  |  UIN- NBHHLIP22151V012122   Page 25 of 
26 
The name of the Company has changed from Max Bupa Health Insurance Company Limited to Niva Bupa Health Insurance 
Company Limited effective 5th July, 2021 
   
Internal 
 
KOLKATA - Shri P. K. Rath 
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 
Hindustan Bldg. Annexe, 4th Floor, 
4, C.R. Avenue, 
KOLKATA - 700 072. 
Tel.: 033 - 22124339 / 22124340 
Fax : 033 - 22124341 
Email: bimalokpal.kolkata@cioins.co.in 
West Bengal,  
Sikkim, UT of 
Andaman & Nicobar Islands. 
LUCKNOW -Shri Justice Anil Kumar Srivastava 
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 
6th Floor, Jeevan Bhawan, Phase-II, 
Nawal Kishore Road, Hazratganj, 
Lucknow - 226 001. 
Tel.: 0522 - 2231330 / 2231331 
Fax: 0522 - 2231310 
Email: bimalokpal.lucknow@cioins.co.in 
Districts of Uttar Pradesh : 
Lalitpur, Jhansi, Mahoba, Hamirpur, Banda, 
Chitrakoot, Allahabad, Mirzapur, Sonbhabdra, 
Fatehpur, Pratapgarh, Jaunpur,Varanasi, 
Gazipur, Jalaun, Kanpur, Lucknow, Unnao, 
Sitapur, Lakhimpur, Bahraich, Barabanki, 
Raebareli, Sravasti, Gonda, Faizabad, Amethi, 
Kaushambi, Balrampur, Basti, Ambedkarnagar, 
Sultanpur, Maharajgang, Santkabirnagar, 
Azamgarh, Kushinagar, Gorkhpur, Deoria, Mau, 
Ghazipur, Chandauli, Ballia, Sidharathnagar. 
MUMBAI - Shri Milind A. Kharat 
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 
3rd Floor, Jeevan Seva Annexe, 
S. V. Road, Santacruz (W), 
Mumbai - 400 054. 
Tel.: 022 - 26106552 / 26106960 
Fax: 022 - 26106052 
Email: bimalokpal.mumbai@cioins.co.in 
Goa,  
Mumbai Metropolitan Region  
excluding Navi Mumbai & Thane. 
NOIDA - Shri Chandra Shekhar Prasad 
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 
Bhagwan Sahai Palace 
4th Floor, Main Road, 
Naya Bans, Sector 15, 
Distt: Gautam Buddh Nagar, U.P-201301. 
Tel.: 0120-2514252 / 2514253 
Email: bimalokpal.noida@cioins.co.in  
State of Uttaranchal and the following 
Districts of Uttar Pradesh: 
Agra, Aligarh, Bagpat, Bareilly, Bijnor, Budaun, 
Bulandshehar, Etah, Kanooj, Mainpuri, Mathura, 
Meerut, Moradabad, Muzaffarnagar, Oraiyya, 
Pilibhit, Etawah, Farrukhabad, Firozbad, 
Gautambodhanagar, Ghaziabad, Hardoi, 
Shahjahanpur, Hapur, Shamli, Rampur, 
Kashganj, Sambhal, Amroha, Hathras, 
Kanshiramnagar, Saharanpur. 
PATNA - Shri N. K. Singh 
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 
1st Floor,Kalpana Arcade Building,, 
Bazar Samiti Road, 
Bahadurpur, Patna 800 006. 
Tel.: 0612-2680952 
Email: bimalokpal.patna@cioins.co.in 
Bihar, 
Jharkhand. 

--- PAGE 26 ---

Policy Document 
Product- Arogya Sanjeevani, Niva Bupa Health Insurance Co. Ltd.  |  UIN- NBHHLIP22151V012122   Page 26 of 
26 
The name of the Company has changed from Max Bupa Health Insurance Company Limited to Niva Bupa Health Insurance 
Company Limited effective 5th July, 2021 
   
Internal 
 
PUNE - Shri Vinay Sah 
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 
Jeevan Darshan Bldg., 3rd Floor, 
C.T.S. No.s. 195 to 198, 
N.C. Kelkar Road, Narayan Peth, Pune – 411 030. 
Tel.: 020-41312555 
Email: bimalokpal.pune@cioins.co.in 
Maharashtra, 
Area of Navi Mumbai and Thane 
excluding Mumbai Metropolitan Region. 
 
EXECUTIVE COUNCIL OF INSURERS, 
3rd Floor, Jeevan Seva Annexe, 
S. V. Road, Santacruz (W), 
Mumbai - 400 054.  
Tel.: 022 - 69038801/03/04/05/06/07/08/09 
Email: inscoun@cioins.co.in 
Shri B. C. Patnaik, Secretary General 
Smt Poornima Gaitonde, Secretary