--- PAGE 1 ---

Corona Kavach Policy, Niva Bupa Health Insurance 
Product- Corona Kavach Policy, Niva Bupa Health Insurance Co. Ltd.   |   UIN- NBHHLIP22152V012122 
The name of the Company has been changed from Max Bupa Health Insurance Company Limited to Niva Bupa Health 
Insurance Company Limited effective 5th July, 2021 
Internal 
 
1. PREAMBLE 
 
This Policy is a contract of insurance issued by Niva Bupa Health Insurance Company Limited (hereinafter called the 
'Company') to the proposer mentioned in the schedule (hereinafter called the 'Insured') to cover the person(s) 
named in the schedule (hereinafter called the 'Insured Persons'). The policy is based o n the statements and 
declaration provided in the Proposal Form by the proposer and is subject to receipt of the requisite premium.  
 
2. OPERATIVE  CLAUSE 
 
If during the policy period one or more Insured Person(s) is required to be hospitalized for treatment of  Covid at a 
Hospital or given Home Care Treatment following Medical Advice of a duly qualified Medical Practitioner, the 
Company shall indemnify medically necessary, expenses towards the Coverage mentioned in the policy schedule.  
Provided further that, any amount payable under the policy shall be subject to the terms of coverage, exclusions, 
conditions and definitions contained herein. Maximum liability of the Company under all  such  Claims  during the 
Policy Period shall  be  the  Sum  Insured (Individual or Floater) opted and specified  in the Schedule. 
 
3. DEFINITIONS 
 
The terms defined below and at other junctures in the Policy have the meanings ascribed  to  them wherever  they  
appear  in  this  Policy  and,  where,  the  context  so  requires,  references  to  the  singular include references to the 
plural; references to the male includes the female and  references  to  any statutory  enactment  includes  
subsequent  changes to the same. 
3.1. Age means age of the Insured person on last birthday as on date of commencement of the Policy.  
 
3.2. AYUSH   Treatment   refers   to   hospitalisation   treatments   given   under   Ayurveda,   Yoga   and 
Naturopathy, Unani, Siddha and Homeopathy systems. 
 
3.3. An AYUSH Hospital is a healthcare facility wherein medical/surgical/para-surgical treatment procedures and 
interventions are carried out by  AYUSH Medical  Practitioner(s)  comprising of any of the following :  
 
i. Central or State Government AYUSH Hospital or 
ii. Teaching hospital attached to AYUSH College recognized by the Central Government/Central Council of 
Indian Medicine/Central Council for Homeopathy; or 
iii. AYUSH Hospital, standalone or co-located with  in-patient  healthcare  facility  of any recognized system of 
medicine, registered with the local authorities, wherever applicable, and is under the supervision of a 
qualified registered AYUSH Medical Practitioner and must comply with all the following criterion:  
a. Having at least 5 in-patient beds; 
b. Having qualified AYUSH Medical Practitioner in charge round the clock; 
c. Having  dedicated  AYUSH  therapy   sections  as  required  and/or  has equipped operation theatre 
where surgical procedures are to be carried out; 
d. Maintaining daily records of the patients and making them accessible to the insurance company 's 
authorized representative. 
3.4. Cashless Facility means a facility extended by  the  insurer  to the  insured  where  the payments,  of the costs 
of treatment undergone by the insured person in  accordance  with  the Policy terms and conditions, are 
directly  made to the network provider by the insurer to the extent pre-authorization is  approved. 
 

--- PAGE 2 ---

Corona Kavach Policy, Niva Bupa Health Insurance 
Product- Corona Kavach Policy, Niva Bupa Health Insurance Co. Ltd.   |   UIN- NBHHLIP22152V012122 
The name of the Company has been changed from Max Bupa Health Insurance Company Limited to Niva Bupa Health 
Insurance Company Limited effective 5th July, 2021 
Internal 
3.5. Condition  Precedent  means  a  Policy  term  or  condition  upon  which  the  Company 's  liability under the 
Policy is conditional upon. 
 
3.6. COVID: For the purpose of this Policy, Coronavirus Disease means COVID -19 as defined by the World Health 
Organization (WHO) and caused by the virus SARS-CoV2.  
 
3.7. Day Care Treatment means medical treatment, and/or surgical procedure which is: 
i. undertaken   under  general  or  local  anesthesia  in  a  hospital/day   care  centre  in  less  than twenty four 
hours  because  of  technological   advancement,  and 
ii. which would have otherwise required a hospitalisation of more than twenty four hours. Treatment 
normally taken on an out-patient basis is not included in the scope of this definition. 
 
3.8. Disclosure to information norm: The policy shall be void and all premium paid thereon shall be forfeited to the 
Company in the event of misrepresentation, mis-description or non-disclosure of any material fact by the 
policyholder. 
 
3.9. Emergency Care: Emergency care means management for an illness or injury which results in symptoms which 
occur suddenly and unexpectedly, and requires immediate care by a medical practitioner to prevent death or 
serious long term impairment of the insured person's health. 
 
3.10. Family means, the Family that consists of the proposer and any one or more of the family members as 
mentioned below: 
 
i. Legally wedded  spouse. 
ii. Parents and Parents-in-law. 
iii. Dependent Children (i.e. natural or legally adopted) between the day 1 of age to 25 years. If the child 
above 18 years of age is financially independent, he or she shall be ineligible for coverage.  
 
3.11. Health care worker for the purpose of this policy shall mean doctors, nurses, midwives, dental 
practitioners and other health professionals including laboratory assistants, pharmacists, physiotherapists, 
technicians and people working in hospitals.  
 
3.12. Home Care Treatment means treatment availed by the Insured Person at home for Covid on positive 
diagnosis of Covid in a Government authorized diagnostic Centre, which in normal course would require care 
and treatment at a hospital but is actually taken at home provided that:  
a) The Media practitioner advices the Insured person to undergo treatment at home.  
b) There is a continuous active line of treatment with monitoring of the health status by a medical 
practitioner for each day through the duration of the home care treatment. 
c) Daily monitoring chart including records of treatment administered duly signed by the treating doctor 
is maintained.  
 
3.13. Hospital means any institution established for in-patient care and day care treatment  of  disease/ injuries 
and which has been registered as a  hospital with the  local  authorities  under  the  Clinical Establishments 
(Registration and Regulation) Act, 2010 or under the enactments  specified  under Schedule of Section 56(1) of 
the said Act, OR complies with all minimum criteria as under: 
 
i. has  qualified  nursing  staff under  its employment  round  the  clock;  
ii. has  at  least  ten  inpatient  beds,  in  those  towns  having a population  of  less  than  ten  lakhs  and  
fifteen in-patient  beds  in  all other places; 
iii. has qualified  medical  practitioner(s) in charge round the clock; 
iv. has a fully equipped  operation theatre of its own where surgical procedures are carried out  
v. maintains daily records of patients and shall make these accessible to the Company's  authoriz ed 
personnel. 
 

--- PAGE 3 ---

Corona Kavach Policy, Niva Bupa Health Insurance 
Product- Corona Kavach Policy, Niva Bupa Health Insurance Co. Ltd.   |   UIN- NBHHLIP22152V012122 
The name of the Company has been changed from Max Bupa Health Insurance Company Limited to Niva Bupa Health 
Insurance Company Limited effective 5th July, 2021 
Internal 
For the purpose of this policy any other set up designated by the Government as hospital for the treatment 
of Covid shall also be considered as hospital.  
 
3.14. Hospitalisation means admission in a hospital for a minimum period of twenty-four (24) consecutive  'In-
patient  care'  hours  except  for  specified  procedures/  treatments,  where  such admission could be for a 
period of less than twenty four (24) consecutive hours. 
 
3.15. In-Patient Care means treatment for which the insured person has to stay in a hospital for more than 24 
hours for a covered event. 
 
 
3.16. Insured Person means person(s) named in the schedule of the Policy. 
 
3.17. Intensive Care Unit means an identified section, ward or wing of a hospital which is under the constant 
supervision of a dedicated  medical  practitioner(s) , and  which  is specially  equipped  for the continuous 
monitoring and treatment of patients who are in a critical condition , or require life support f acilities and where 
the  level  of care and supervision  is considerably  more sophisticated and intensive than in the ordinary and 
other wards . 
 
3.18. ICU (Intensive Care Unit) Charges means the amount charged by a Hospital  towards  ICU expenses on a 
per day basis which shall include the expenses  for  ICU  bed, general  medical support services provided to  any  
ICU  patient  including  monitoring devices, critical  care  nursing and  intensivist  charges.  
 
3.19. Medical Advice means any consultation or advice from a Medical Practitioner including the issue of any 
prescription or follow up prescription. 
 
3.20. Medical Expenses means those expenses that an insured person has necessarily and actually incurred for 
medical treatment on account of illness or accident on the advice of a medical practitioner, as long as these are 
no more than would have been payable if the insured person had not been insured and no more than other 
hospitals or doctors in the same locality would have charged for the same medical treatment.  
 
3.21. Medical Practitioner means a person who holds a valid registration from the Medical Council of any state 
or Medical Council of India or Council for Indian Medicine or for Homeopathy set up by the Government of 
India or a State Government and is thereby entitled to practice medicine within its jurisdiction; and is acting 
within the scope and jurisdiction of the licence. 
 
3.22. Medically Necessary Treatment means any treatment, tests, medication , or stay in hospital or part of a 
stay in hospital which 
 
i. is required for the medical management of illness or injury suffered by the insured ;  
ii. must not exceed  the  level  of care necessary  to provide  safe, adequate and  appropriate medical care in 
scope, duration , or intensity ; 
iii. must have been prescribed by a medical practitioner; 
iv. must conform to the professional  standards widely  accepted  in  international  medical practice  or by the 
medical community in India. 
 
3.23. Network Provider means hospitals en listed by insurer, TPA or jointly by an insurer and TPA to provide 
medical services to an insured by a cashless facility. 
 
3.24. Non- Network Provider means any hospital that is not part of the network. 
 

--- PAGE 4 ---

Corona Kavach Policy, Niva Bupa Health Insurance 
Product- Corona Kavach Policy, Niva Bupa Health Insurance Co. Ltd.   |   UIN- NBHHLIP22152V012122 
The name of the Company has been changed from Max Bupa Health Insurance Company Limited to Niva Bupa Health 
Insurance Company Limited effective 5th July, 2021 
Internal 
3.25. Notification of Claim means the process of intimating a claim to the Insurer or TPA through any of the 
recognized modes of communication. 
 
3.26. Out-Patient (OPD) Treatment means treatment in which the insured visits a clinic/ hospital or associated 
facility like a consultation room for diagnosis and treatment based on the advice of a medical practitioner. The 
insured is not admitted as a day care or in-patient. 
 
3.27. Pre-hospitalisation Medical Expenses means medical expenses incurred during the period of 15 days 
preceding the hospitalisation/home care treatment of the Insured Person, provided that: 
i. Such  Medical  Expenses  are  incurred  for the  same condition  for  which  the  Insured  Person 's 
Hospitalisation/home care treatment  was  required,  and 
ii. The   In-patient   Hospitalisation/home care treatment   claim   for   such   Hospitalisation/home care 
treatment is admissible by the Insurance Company. 
 
3.28. Post-hospitalisation Medical Expenses means medical expenses incurred during the period  of 30 days 
immediately after the insured person is discharged from the hospital/completion of home care treatment  
provided that: 
i. Such  Medical  Expenses  are  for the  same  condition  for  which  the  insured  person 's hospitalisation  
was required, and 
ii. The inpatient hospitalisation/home care treatment claim for such hospitalisation/home care treatment 
is admissible by the Insurance Company. 
 
3.29. Policy means these Policy wordings, the Policy Schedule and any applicable endorsements or extensions 
attaching to or forming part thereof. The Policy contains details of the extent of cover available to the Insured 
person, what is excluded from the cover and the terms & conditions on which the Policy is issued to the Insured 
person. 
 
3.30. Policy period means period of three and half months (3 ½ months), six and half months (6 ½ months), nine 
and half months (9 ½ months) as mentioned in the schedule for which the policy is issued.  
 
3.31. Policy Schedule means the Policy Schedule attached to and forming part of Policy.  
 
3.32. Qualified Nurse means a person who holds a valid registration from the Nursing Council of India or the 
Nursing Council of any state in India. 
 
3.33. Room Rent means the amount charged by a hospital towards Room and Boarding expenses and shall 
include the associated medical expenses. 
 
3.34. Sub-limit means a cost sharing requirement under a health insurance policy in which an insurer wouId not 
be Iiable to pay any amount in excess of the pre-defined Iimit. 
 
3.35. Sum Insured means the pre-defined limit specified in the Policy Schedule. Sum Insured represents the 
maximum, total and Cumulative liability for any and all claims made under the Policy, in respect of that Insured 
Person (on Individual basis) or all Insured Persons (on Floater basis) during the Policy Year.  
 
3.36. Surgery or Surgical Procedure means manual and/or operative procedure(s) required for treatment  of  an  
illness  or  injury,  correction  of  deformities  and  defects,  diagnosis  and  cure  of diseases, relief of suffering 
and prolongation  of life, performed  in a hospital or day care centre by a medical practitioner.  
 

--- PAGE 5 ---

Corona Kavach Policy, Niva Bupa Health Insurance 
Product- Corona Kavach Policy, Niva Bupa Health Insurance Co. Ltd.   |   UIN- NBHHLIP22152V012122 
The name of the Company has been changed from Max Bupa Health Insurance Company Limited to Niva Bupa Health 
Insurance Company Limited effective 5th July, 2021 
Internal 
3.37. Third Party Administrator (TPA) means a Company registered with the Authority, and engaged by an 
insurer, for a fee or by whatever name called and as may be mentioned in the health services agreement, for 
providing health services. 
 
3.38. Waiting Period means a period from the inception of this Policy during which Covid is not covered.  
 
4. BASE COVER 
 
The covers  listed  below  is in-built Policy  benefits  and  shall  be  available  to  all  Insured Persons  in 
accordance with the procedures set out in this Policy . 
 
4.1. Covid Hospitalization Cover:  
 
The  Company  shall  indemnify  medical  expenses  incurred  for  Hospitalization  of  the  Insured   Person during the 
Policy period for the treatment of Covid on Positive diagnosis of Covid  in a government authorized diagnostic centre 
including the expenses incurred on treatment of any comorbidity along with the treatment for Covid up to the Sum 
Insured specified in the policy schedule, for 
i. Room Rent, Boarding, Nursing Expenses as provided by the Hospital/ Nursing Home.  
ii. Intensive Care Unit (ICU) / Intensive Cardiac Care Unit (ICCU) expenses.  
iii. Surgeon, Anesthetist , Medical  Practitioner , Consultants, Specialist Fees whether  paid  directly  to the 
treating doctor / surgeon  or to the hospital 
iv. Anesthesia, blood, oxygen, operation theatre charges, surgical appliances, ventilator charges, medicines 
and drugs, costs towards diagnostics, diagnostic imaging modalities, PPE Kit, gloves, mask and such similar 
other expenses.  
v. Road Ambulance subject to a maximum of Rs. 2000/- per hospitalization for the Ambulance services 
offered by a Hospital or by an Ambulance service provider, provided that the ambulance is availed only in 
relation to Covid Hospitalization for which the Company has accepted a claim under section. This also 
includes the cost of the transportation of the Insured Person from a Hospital to the another Hospital as 
prescribed by a Medial Practitioner.  
Note:  
1. Expenses of Hospitalization for a minimum period of 24 consecutive hours only shall be admissible.  
 
4.2. Home Care Treatment Expenses 
 
Home Care Treatment means treatment availed by the Insured Person at home for Covid on positive diagnosis of 
Covid in a Government authorized diagnostic Centre, which in normal course would require care and treatment at a 
hospital but is actually taken at home maximum up to 14 days per incident provided that:  
a) The Medical practitioner advices the Insured person to undergo treatment at home.  
b) There is a continuous active line of treatment with monitoring of the health status by a medical 
practitioner for each day through the duration of the home care treatment.  
c) Daily monitoring chart including records of treatment administered duly signed by the treating doctor 
is maintained.  
d) Insured shall be permitted to avail the services as prescribed by the medical pract itioner. Cashless or 
reimbursement facility shall be offered under homecare expenses subject to claim settlement policy 
disclosed in the website.  
e) In case the insured intends to avail the services of non-network provider claim shall be subject to 
reimbursement, a prior approval from the Insurer needs to be taken before availing such services.  
 
In this benefit, the following shall be covered if prescribed by the treating medical practitioner and is 
related to treatment of COVID,  

--- PAGE 6 ---

Corona Kavach Policy, Niva Bupa Health Insurance 
Product- Corona Kavach Policy, Niva Bupa Health Insurance Co. Ltd.   |   UIN- NBHHLIP22152V012122 
The name of the Company has been changed from Max Bupa Health Insurance Company Limited to Niva Bupa Health 
Insurance Company Limited effective 5th July, 2021 
Internal 
a. Diagnostic tests undergone at home or at diagnostics centre 
b. Medicines prescribed in writing 
c. Consultation charges of the medical practitioner 
d. Nursing charges related to medical staff 
e. Medical procedures limited to parenteral administration of medicines  
f. Cost of Pulse oximeter, Oxygen cylinder and Nebulizer  
 
4.3. AYUSH Treatment 
The Company shall indemnify medical expenses incurred for inpatient care treatment for Covid on Positive 
diagnosis of COVID test in a government authorized diagnostic centre including  the expenses incurred on treatment 
of any comorbidity along with the treatment for Covid under Ayurveda, Yoga and Naturopathy, Unani, Siddha and 
Homeopathy systems of medicines during the Policy Period up to the Iimit of sum insured as specified in the policy 
schedule in any AYUSH Hospital. 
Covered expenses shall be as specified under Covid Hospitalization Expenses (Section 4.1)  
4.4. Pre Hospitalization 
The company shall indemnify pre-hospitalization/home care treatment medical expenses incurred, related to an 
admissible hospitalization/home care treatment, for a fixed period of 15 days prior to the date of admissible 
hospitalization/home care treatment covered under the policy. 
4.5. Post Hospitalisation 
The company shall indemnify post-hospitalization/home care treatment medical  expenses  incurred,  related  to  an  
admissible hospitalization/home care treatment,  for  a  fixed  period  of  30  days  from  the  date  of  discharge  
from the hospital, following an  admissible  hospitalization  covered  under the policy.  
4.6. The expenses that are not covered in this policy are placed under List -I of Annexure-A. The list of expenses that 
are to be subsumed into room charges, or procedure charges or costs of treatment are placed under List -II, List-
III and List-IV of Annexure-A respectively. 
 
5. OPTIONAL COVER 
 
The cover listed below is Optional Policy benefit and shall be available to Insured Persons in accordance with 
the terms set out in the Policy, if the listed cover is opted 
 
5.1. Hospital Daily Cash: The Company shall pay the Insured Person 0.5% of sum insured per day for each 24 hours 
of continuous hospitalization for which the Company has accepted a claim under Section - 4.1 Hospitalization 
Cover.  
 
The benefit shall be payable maximum up to 15 days during a policy period in respect of every insured person.  
 
 
The total amount payable in respect to Covers 4.1, 4.2, 4.3, 4.4, 4.5, 5.1, shall not exceed 100% of the Sum 
Insured during a policy period.  
 
6. WAITING PERIOD 
 
The Company shall not be liable to make any payment under the policy in connection with or in respect of 
following expenses till the expiry of waiting period mentioned below:  
 
6.1. First Fifteen Days Waiting Period 
Expenses related to the treatment of Covid within 15 days from the policy commencement date shall be 
excluded. 
 
7. EXCLUSIONS 

--- PAGE 7 ---

Corona Kavach Policy, Niva Bupa Health Insurance 
Product- Corona Kavach Policy, Niva Bupa Health Insurance Co. Ltd.   |   UIN- NBHHLIP22152V012122 
The name of the Company has been changed from Max Bupa Health Insurance Company Limited to Niva Bupa Health 
Insurance Company Limited effective 5th July, 2021 
Internal 
 
The Company shall not be liable to make any payment under the policy, in respect of any expenses incurred in 
connection with or in respect of: 
 
7.1. Investigation & Evaluation (Code- Excl04)  
Expenses related to any admission primarily for diagnostics and evaluation purposes. Any diagnostic expenses 
which are not related or not incidental to the current diagnosis and treatment.  
 
7.2. Rest Cure, rehabilitation and respite care (Code- Excl05) 
Expenses  related  to  any  admission  primarily  for  enforced  bed   rest  and  not  for  receiving treatment. This 
also includes: 
I. Custodial care either at home or in a nursing facility for  personal  care  such  as  help  with activi ties of 
daily living such as  bathing, dressing, moving around either by skilled nurses or assistant  or  non -skilled  
persons. 
II. Any services for people who are terminally ill to address physical, social, emotional and spiritual needs  
 
7.3. Dietary supplements and substances  that  can  be  purchased  without  prescription,  including  but not limited 
to  Vitamins,  minerals  and  organic  substances  unless  prescribed  by  a  medical practitioner as part of 
hospitalization  claim or Home care treatment. 
 
7.4. Unproven Treatments 
Expenses related to any unproven treatment, services and supplies for or in connection with any treatment. 
Unproven treatments are treatments, procedures or supplies that lack significant medical documentation to 
support their effectiveness. However, treatment authorized by the government for the treatment of COVID 
shall be covered.  
 
7.5. Any claim in relation to Covid where it has been diagnosed prior to Policy Start Date.  
 
7.6. Any expenses incurred on Day Care treatment and OPD treatment  
 
7.7. Diagnosis/Treatment outside the geographical limits of India.  
 
7.8. Testing done at a Diagnostic centre which is not authorized by the Government shall not be recognized under 
this Policy 
 
7.9. All covers under this Policy shall cease if the Insured Person travels to any c ountry placed under travel 
restrictions by the Government of India.  
 
8. CLAIM PROCEDURE 
 
8.1. Procedure for Cashless claims: 
 
(i) Treatment may be taken in a network provider and is subject to pre authorization by the Company or its 
authorized TPA.  
(ii) Cashless request form available with the network provider and TPA shall be completed and sent to the 
Company/TPA for authorization.  
(iii) The Company/ TPA upon getting cashless request form and related medical information from the insured 
person/ network provider will issue pre-authorization letter to the hospital after verification.  
(iv) At the time of discharge, the insured person has to verify and sign the discharge papers, pay for non -
medical and inadmissible expenses.  
(v) The Company / TPA reserves the right to deny pre-authorization in case the insured person is unable to 
provide the relevant medical details.  
(vi) In case of denial of cashless access, the insured person may obtain the treatment as per treating doctor's 
advice and submit the claim documents to the Company / TPA for reimbursement. 
 

--- PAGE 8 ---

Corona Kavach Policy, Niva Bupa Health Insurance 
Product- Corona Kavach Policy, Niva Bupa Health Insurance Co. Ltd.   |   UIN- NBHHLIP22152V012122 
The name of the Company has been changed from Max Bupa Health Insurance Company Limited to Niva Bupa Health 
Insurance Company Limited effective 5th July, 2021 
Internal 
8.2. Procedure for reimbursement of claims: 
For  reimbursement  of claims  the  insured  person  may  submit the necessary  documents  to  TPA (if 
applicable)/ Company within the prescribed time limit as specified hereunder.  
 
SI No. Type of claim Prescribed Time Limit 
1.  Reimbursement of hospitalization, and pre-
hospitalization expenses 
Within thirty days of date of discharge from  
Hospital 
2.  Reimbursement of post hospitalization  
expenses 
Within fifteen days from completion of  
post hospitalization treatment 
3.  Reimbursement of Home Care Treatment Within thirty days from completion of home care 
treatment 
 
8.3. Notification of Claim 
Notice with full particulars shall be sent to the Company/ TPA (if applicable) as under:  
i. Within 24hours  from  the  date  of  emergency  hospitalization/cashless home care treatment  
ii. At least 48 hours prior to admission in Hospital in case of a planned Hospitalization.  
 
8.4. Documents to be submitted:  
The claim is to be supported with the following documents and submitted within the prescribed time limit. 
Benefits Claim Documents Required 
1. Covid  
Hospitalization  
Cover 
I. Duly filed and signed  claim form 
II. Copy of Insured Person’s passport, if available (All Pages) 
III. Photo  Identity  proof of the  patient (if Insured does not own a 
passport) 
IV. Medical practitioner's prescription advising admission  
V. Original bills with itemized break-up 
VI. Payment receipts 
VII. Discharge summary including complete medical history 
of the patient along with other details. 
VIII. Investigation reports including Insured person’s test reports from 
Authorized diagnostic centre for COVID. 
IX. OT notes or Surgeon's certificate giving details of the operation  
performed, wherever applicable 
X. Sticker/ Invoice of the Implants, wherever applicable. 
XI. NEFT Details (to enable  direct  credit of claim amount in bank   
account) and cancelled cheque 
XII. KYC  (Identity proof  with  Address) of the proposer, where claim  
liability is above Rs.1 Lakh as per AML Guidelines. 
XIII. Legal heir/succession certificate, wherever applicable. 
XIV. Any other relevant document required by Company/ TPA for  
assessment of the claim. 
2. Home Care  
Treatment  
expenses 
I. Duly filed and signed  claim form 
II. Copy of Insured Person’s passport, if available (All Pages) 
III. Photo  Identity  proof of the  patient (if Insured does not own a 
passport) 
IV. Medical practitioner's prescription advising hospitalization  
V. A certificate from medical practitioner advising treatment at home or 
consent from the Insured person on availing home care benefit.  
VI. Discharge Certificate from medical practitioner specifying date of start 
 and completion of home care treatment.  
VII. Daily monitoring chart including records of treatment administered 
duly signed by the treating doctor is maintained.  

--- PAGE 9 ---

Corona Kavach Policy, Niva Bupa Health Insurance 
Product- Corona Kavach Policy, Niva Bupa Health Insurance Co. Ltd.   |   UIN- NBHHLIP22152V012122 
The name of the Company has been changed from Max Bupa Health Insurance Company Limited to Niva Bupa Health 
Insurance Company Limited effective 5th July, 2021 
Internal 
 
 
Note: 
1. The company shall only accept bills/invoices/medical treatment related documents only in the Insured 
Person's name for whom the claim is submitted. 
2. In the event of a claim lodged under the Policy and the original documents having been submitted to any  
other  insurer,  the  Company  shall  accept  the  copy  of  the  documents  and  claim  settlement advice, 
duly certified  by  the other insurer subject to satisfaction of the Company.  
3. Any delay in notification or submission may be condoned on merit where delay is proved to be for reason s 
beyond the control of the Insured Person. 
 
8.5. Claim Settlement (provision for Penal Interest) 
i. The  Company  shall  settle  or  reject  a  claim,  as  the  case  may  be,  within  30  days  from  the  date  of 
receipt  of  last  necessary  document. 
ii. In the case of delay in the payment of a claim, the Company shall be liable to pay interest from the date of 
receipt of last necessary document to the date of payment of claim at a rate 2% above the bank rate.  
iii. However,  where  the  circumstances  of  a  claim  warrant   an   investigation in the opinion of the 
Company, it shall initiate and complete such investigation  at the earliest in any case not later than  30 days 
from the date of receipt of last necessary document. In such cases, the Company shall settle the  claim 
within 45 days from the date of receipt of last necessary document.  
iv. In case of delay beyond stipulated 45 days the company shall be liable to pay interest at a rate 2% above 
the bank rate from the date of receipt of last necessary document to the da te of payment of claim. 
 
8.6. Services Offered by TPA  
Servicing of claims, i.e., claim admissions and assessments, under this Policy by way of pre -authorization of 
cashless treatment or processing of claims other than cashless claims or both, as per the underl ying terms and 
conditions of the policy.  
The services offered by a TPA shall not include 
I. Claim settlement and claim rejection,  
II. Any services directly to any insured person or to any other person unless such services is in accordance 
with the terms and conditions of the Agreement entered into with the Company  
 
8.7. Payment of Claim 
All claims under the policy shall be paid in Indian currency only.  
9. GENERAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS 
 
9.1. Disclosure of Information 
The policy shall be void and all premium paid thereon shall be forfeited to the Company in the event of 
misrepresentation, mis description or non-disclosure of any material fact by the policyholder. 
 
9.2. Condition Precedent to Admission of Liability 
The terms and conditions of the policy must be fulfilled by the insured person for the Company to make any 
payment for claim(s) arising under the policy. 
 
9.3. Records to be Maintained 
The Insured person shall keep an accurate record containing all relevant medical recor ds and shall allow the 
Company or its representatives to inspect such records. The Policyholder or Insured Person shall furnish such 
information as the Company may require for settlement of any claim under the Policy, within reasonable time 
limit and within the time limit specified in the Policy. 
 
9.4. Complete Discharge 
Any payment to the policyholder, insured person or his/ her nominees or his/ her legal representative or 
assignee or to the Hospital, as the case may be, for any benefit under the policy shall be a valid discharge 
towards payment of claim by the Company to the extent of that amount for the particular claim.  

--- PAGE 10 ---

Corona Kavach Policy, Niva Bupa Health Insurance 
Product- Corona Kavach Policy, Niva Bupa Health Insurance Co. Ltd.   |   UIN- NBHHLIP22152V012122 
The name of the Company has been changed from Max Bupa Health Insurance Company Limited to Niva Bupa Health 
Insurance Company Limited effective 5th July, 2021 
Internal 
 
9.5. Notice and Communication 
i. Any notice, direction, instruction or any other communication related to the Policy should be made in 
writing. 
ii. Such communication shall be sent to the address of the Company or through any other electronic 
modes specified in the Policy Schedule. 
iii. The Company shall communicate to the Insured at the address or through any other electronic mode 
mentioned in the schedule. 
 
9.6. Territorial Limit 
All medical treatment for the purpose of this insurance will have to be taken in India only.  
 
9.7. Multiple Policies 
1. ln case of multiple policies taken by an insured person during a period from one or more insurers to 
indemnify treatment costs, the policyholder shall have the right to require a settlement of his/her 
claim in terms of any of his/her policies. ln all such cases the insurer chosen by the policyholder shall 
be obliged to settle the claim as long as the claim is within the limits of and according to the terms of 
the chosen policy. 
2. Policy Holder having multiple policies shall also have the right to prefer claims under this policy for the 
amounts disallowed under any other policy / policies even if the sum insured is not exhausted.  Then 
the insurer (s) shall independently settle the claim subject to the terms and conditions of this policy.  
3. lf the amount to be claimed exceeds the sum insured under a single policy, the policyholder shall have 
the right to choose insurer from whom he/she wants to claim the balance amount. 
4. Where an insured person has policies from more than one insurer to cover the same risk on indemnity 
basis, the insured person shall only be indemnified the hospitalisation costs in accordance with the 
terms and conditions of the chosen policy. 
9.8. Fraud 
lf any claim made by the insured person, is in any respect fraudulent, or if any false statement, or declaration is 
made or used in support thereof, or if any fraudulent means or devices are used by the insured person or 
anyone acting on his/her behalf to obtain any benefit under this policy, all benefits under this policy shall be 
forfeited. 
Any amount already paid against claims made under this policy but which are found fraudulent later under this 
policy shall be repaid by all recipient(s)/policyholder(s), who has made that particular claim, who shall be jointly 
and severally liable for such repayment.  
For the purpose of this clause, the expression "fraud" means any of the following acts committed by the 
insured person or by his agent or the hospital/doctor/any other party, with intent to deceive the insurer or to 
induce the insurer to issue an insurance policy:  
 
a) the suggestion, as a fact of that which is not true and which the insured person does not believe to be true ;  
b) the active concealment of a fact by the insured person having know ledge or belief of the fact; 
c) any other act fitted to deceive; 
d) any such act or omission as the law specially declares to be fraudulent  
 
The Company shall not repudiate the policy on the ground of Fraud, if the insured person / beneficiary can 
prove that the misstatement was true to the best of his knowledge and there was no deliberate intention to 
suppress the fact or that such misstatement of or suppression of material fact are within th e knowledge of the 
insurer. 
 
9.9. Cancellation 
The Company may cancel the policy at any time on grounds of mis-representation, non-disclosure of material 
facts, fraud by the insured person, by giving 7 days' written notice. There would be no refund of premium o n 
cancellation on grounds of misrepresentation, non-disclosure of material facts or fraud 
 
9.10. Automatic change in Coverage under the policy 
The coverage for the Insured person(s) shall automatically terminate:  

--- PAGE 11 ---

Corona Kavach Policy, Niva Bupa Health Insurance 
Product- Corona Kavach Policy, Niva Bupa Health Insurance Co. Ltd.   |   UIN- NBHHLIP22152V012122 
The name of the Company has been changed from Max Bupa Health Insurance Company Limited to Niva Bupa Health 
Insurance Company Limited effective 5th July, 2021 
Internal 
In the case of demise of Insured Person. However the cover shall continue for the remaining Insured Persons till the 
end of the Policy Period. All relevant particulars in respect of such person (including his/her relationship with the 
insured person) must be submitted to the company along with the applic ation. Provided no claim has been made, 
and termination takes place on account of death of the insured person, pro -rata   refund of premium of the 
deceased insured person for the balance period of the policy will be effective.   
9.11. Territorial Jurisdiction 
All disputes or differences under or in relation to the interpretation of terms, conditions, validity, construct, 
limitations and/or exclusions contained in the Policy shall be determined by the Indian Court and according to 
Indian law. 
 
9.12. Arbitration 
i. If any dispute or difference shall arise as to the quantum to be paid  by  the  Policy, (liability  being 
otherwise admitted) such difference shall independently of all other questions, be referred to the decision 
of a sole arbitrator to be appointed in writing by the parties here to or if they cannot agree upon a single 
arbitrator within thirty days of any party invoking arbitration, the same shall be referred to a panel of three 
arbitrators, comprising two arbitrators, one to be appointed by each of the parties to the 
dispute/difference and the third arbitrator to be appointed by such two arbitrators and arbitration sh all be 
conducted under and in accordance with the provisions of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act 1996, as 
amended by Arbitration and Conciliation (Amendment) Act, 2015 (No. 3 of 2016).   
ii. It is clearly agreed and understood that no difference or dispute shall be preferable to arbitration as herein 
before provided, if the Company has disputed or not accepted liability under or in respect of the Policy.  
iii. It is hereby expressly stipulated and declared that it shall be a condition precedent to any right of ac tion or 
suit upon the policy that award by such arbitrator/ arbitrators of the amount of expenses shall be first 
obtained. 
 
9.13. Endorsements (Changes in Policy) 
i. This policy constitutes the complete contract of insurance. This Policy cannot be modified by anyone 
(including an insurance agent or broker) except the company. Any change made by the company shall 
be evidenced by a written endorsement signed and stamped. 
ii. The policyholder may be changed during the Policy Period only in case of his/her demise or hi m/her 
moving out of India. The new policyholder must be the legal heir/ immediate family member. Such 
change would be subject to acceptance by the company and payment of premium (if any).  
 
9.14. Terms and conditions of the Policy 
The terms and conditions contained herein and in the Policy Schedule shall be deemed to form part of the 
Policy and shall be read together as one document. 
9.15. Nomination: 
The policyholder is required at the inception of the policy to make a nomination for the purpose of payment of 
claims under the policy in the event of death of the policyholder. Any change of nomination shall be 
communicated to the company in writing and such change shall be effective only when an endorsement on the 
policy is made. ln the event of death of the policyholder, the Company will pay the nominee {as named in the 
Policy Schedule/Policy Certificate/Endorsement (if any)} and in case there is no subsisting nominee, to the legal 
heirs or legal representatives of the policyholder whose discharge shall be treated as ful l and final discharge of 
its liability under the policy 
 
10. REDRESSAL OF GRIEVANCE 
ln case of any grievance the insured person may contact the company through   
Website: www.nivabupa.com 
Toll free: 1860-500-8888 
E-mail: customercare@nivabupa.com (Senior citizens may write to us at: seniorcitizensupport@nivabupa.com) 
Fax : 011-3090-2010 

--- PAGE 12 ---

Corona Kavach Policy, Niva Bupa Health Insurance 
Product- Corona Kavach Policy, Niva Bupa Health Insurance Co. Ltd.   |   UIN- NBHHLIP22152V012122 
The name of the Company has been changed from Max Bupa Health Insurance Company Limited to Niva Bupa Health 
Insurance Company Limited effective 5th July, 2021 
Internal 
Courier:  Customer Services Department 
D-5, 2nd Floor, Logix  Infotech Park  
opp. Metro Station, Sector 59, Noida, 
Uttar Pradesh, 201301 
 
lnsured person may also approach the grievance cell at any of the company's branches with the details of 
grievance  
lf lnsured person is not satisfied with the redressal of grievance through one of the abov e methods, insured 
person may contact the grievance officer at   
Head – Customer Services 
Niva Bupa Health Insurance Company Limited 
 D-5, 2nd Floor, Logix  Infotech Park  
opp. Metro Station, Sector 59, Noida, 
Uttar Pradesh, 201301 
Customer Helpline No: 1860-500-8888  
Fax No.: 011-3090-2010 
Email ID: customercare@nivabupa.com 
 
For updated details of grievance officer, kindly refer https://www.nivabupa.com/customer-care/health-
services/grievance-redressal.aspx 
 
If the Insured person is not satisfied with the above, they can escalate to GRO@nivabupa.com.  
 
Grievance may also be lodged at IRDAI lntegrated Grievance Management System - https://igms. irda.gov. in/ 
 
Insurance Ombudsman: lf lnsured person is not satisfied with the redressal of grievance through above 
methods, the insured person may also approach the office of lnsurance Ombudsman of the respective 
area/region for redressal of grievance. The contact details of the Insurance Ombudsman offices have been 
provided as Annexure-B.  
 
  

--- PAGE 13 ---

Corona Kavach Policy, Niva Bupa Health Insurance 
Product- Corona Kavach Policy, Niva Bupa Health Insurance Co. Ltd.   |   UIN- NBHHLIP22152V012122 
The name of the Company has been changed from Max Bupa Health Insurance Company Limited to Niva Bupa Health 
Insurance Company Limited effective 5th July, 2021 
Internal 
11. TABLE OF BENEFITS 
 
Name Corona Kavach Policy, Niva Bupa Health Insurance Co. Ltd. 
Product Type Individual/Floater 
Category of Benefit Indemnity/Benefit 
Sum Insured 
Rs. 50,000/- (Fifty Thousand) to 5,00,000 (Five Lakh) (in the multiples of fifty thousand)  
On Individual basis- SI shall apply to each individual family member 
On Floater basis- SI shall apply to the entire family.  
Policy Period Three and half months (3 ½ months), Six and half months (6 ½ months), Nine and half 
months (9 ½ months) including waiting periods 
Eligibility 
Policy can be availed by persons between the age of 18 Years up to 65 Years, as Proposer. 
Proposer with higher age can obtain policy for family, without covering self.  
 
Policy can be availed for Self and the following family members 
1. Legally wedded spouse 
2. Parents & Parents-in-law 
3. Dependent Children (i.e natural or legally adopted) between the day 1 of age to 25 
years. If the child above 18 years of age is financially independent, he or she shall be 
ineligible.  
    
Hospitalization 
Expenses 
Medical Expenses of Hospitalization for Covid for a minimum period of 24 consecutive 
hours shall be admissible.  
Pre-Hospitalization For 15 days prior to the date of hospitalization/home care treatment  
Post Hospitalization 30 days from the date of discharge from the hospital/completion of home care treatment  
Sub-limits 
Hospital Daily Cash: 0.5% of Sum Insured per day subject to maximum of 15 days in a 
policy period for every insured member.  
 
Home Care Treatment: Maximum up to 14 days per incident  
AYUSH 
Medical Expenses incurred for inpatient care treatment for Covid under Ayurveda, Yoga  
and  Naturopathy, Unani, Siddha and Homeopathy systems of medicines shall be covered 
up to sum insured during the Policy period as specified in the policy schedul e.  
Home Care 
Treatment Expenses 
The Company shall indemnify costs of treatment incurred by the Insured person for 
availing treatment at home for Covid on positive diagnosis of Covid in a Government 
authorized diagnostic Centre maximum up to 14 days per incident, which in the normal 
course would require care and treatment at a hospital but is actually taken while confined 
at home subject to policy terms and conditions  
 
  

--- PAGE 14 ---

Corona Kavach Policy, Niva Bupa Health Insurance 
Product- Corona Kavach Policy, Niva Bupa Health Insurance Co. Ltd.   |   UIN- NBHHLIP22152V012122 
The name of the Company has been changed from Max Bupa Health Insurance Company Limited to Niva Bupa Health 
Insurance Company Limited effective 5th July, 2021 
Internal 
ANNEXURE A 
List I- Items for which coverage is not available in the policy 
Sl. No. Item 
1 BABY FOOD 
2 BABY UTILITIES CHARGES 
3 BEAUTY SERVICES 
4 BELTS/ BRACES 
5 BUDS 
6 COLD PACK/HOT PACK 
7 CARRY BAGS 
8 EMAIL / INTERNET CHARGES 
9 FOOD CHARGES (OTHER THAN PATIENT's DIET PROVIDED BY HOSPITAL) 
10 LEGGINGS 
11 LAUNDRY CHARGES 
12 MINERAL WATER 
13 SANITARY PAD  
14 TELEPHONE CHARGES 
15 GUEST SERVICES 
16 CREPE BANDAGE 
17 DIAPER OF ANY TYPE 
18 EYELET COLLAR 
19 SLINGS 
20 BLOOD GROUPING AND CROSS MATCHING OF DONORS SAMPLES 
21 SERVICE CHARGES WHERE NURSING CHARGE ALSO CHARGED 
22 TELEVISION CHARGES 
23 SURCHARGES 
24 ATTENDANT CHARGES 
25 EXTRA DIET OF PATIENT (OTHER THAN THAT WHICH FORMS PART OF BED CHARGE)  
26 BIRTH CERTIFICATE 
27 CERTIFICATE CHARGES 
28 COURIER CHARGES 
29 CONVEYANCE CHARGES 
30 MEDICAL CERTIFICATE 
31 MEDICAL RECORDS 
32 PHOTOCOPIES CHARGES 
33 MORTUARY CHARGES  
34 WALKING AIDS CHARGES 
35 SPIROMETRE  
36 STEAM INHALER 
37 ARMSLING 
38 THERMOMETER 
39 CERVICAL COLLAR 
40 SPLINT 
41 DIABETIC FOOT WEAR 
42 KNEE BRACES (LONG/ SHORT/ HINGED)  
43 KNEE IMMOBILIZER/SHOULDER IMMOBILIZER 
44 LUMBO SACRAL BELT 
45 NIMBUS BED OR WATER OR AIR BED CHARGES 
46 AMBULANCE COLLAR 

--- PAGE 15 ---

Corona Kavach Policy, Niva Bupa Health Insurance 
Product- Corona Kavach Policy, Niva Bupa Health Insurance Co. Ltd.   |   UIN- NBHHLIP22152V012122 
The name of the Company has been changed from Max Bupa Health Insurance Company Limited to Niva Bupa Health 
Insurance Company Limited effective 5th July, 2021 
Internal 
47 AMBULANCE EQUIPMENT 
48 ABDOMINAL BINDER 
49 PRIVATE NURSES CHARGES- SPECIAL NURSING CHARGES  
50  SUGAR FREE Tablets 
51 CREAMS POWDERS LOTIONS (Toiletries are not payable, only prescribed medical pharmaceuticals 
payable) 
52 ECG ELECTRODES 
53 ANY KIT WITH NO DETAILS MENTIONED [DELIVERY KIT, ORTHOKIT, RECOVERY KIT, ETC] 
54 KIDNEY TRAY 
55 OUNCE GLASS 
56 PELVIC TRACTION BELT  
57 PAN CAN 
58 TROLLY COVER 
59 UROMETER, URINE JUG 
 
List II- Items that are to be subsumed into Room Charges 
Sl. No. Item 
1 BABY CHARGES (UNLESS SPECIFIED/INDICATED) 
2 HAND WASH 
3 CRADLE CHARGES 
4 COMB 
5 EAU-DE-COLOGNE / ROOM FRESHNERS 
6 GOWN 
7 SLIPPERS  
8 TISSUE PAPER 
9 TOOTH PASTE 
10 TOOTH BRUSH 
11 BED PAN 
12 FLEXI MASK 
13 HAND HOLDER 
14 SPUTUM CUP  
15 DISINFECTANT LOTIONS 
16 LUXURY TAX 
17 HVAC 
18 HOUSE KEEPING CHARGES 
19 AIR CONDITIONER CHARGES 
20 IM IV INJECTION CHARGES  
21 CLEAN SHEET 
22 BLANKET/WARMER BLANKET 
23 ADMISSION KIT 
24 DIABETIC CHART CHARGES 
25 DOCUMENTATION CHARGES / ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES 
26 DISCHARGE PROCEDURE CHARGES 
27 DAILY CHART CHARGES 
28 ENTRANCE PASS / VISITORS PASS CHARGES 
29 EXPENSES RELATED TO PRESCRIPTION ON DISCHARGE 
30 FILE OPENING CHARGES 
31 INCIDENTAL EXPENSES / MISC. CHARGES (NOT EXPLAINED) 

--- PAGE 16 ---

Corona Kavach Policy, Niva Bupa Health Insurance 
Product- Corona Kavach Policy, Niva Bupa Health Insurance Co. Ltd.   |   UIN- NBHHLIP22152V012122 
The name of the Company has been changed from Max Bupa Health Insurance Company Limited to Niva Bupa Health 
Insurance Company Limited effective 5th July, 2021 
Internal 
32 PATIENT IDENTIFICATION BAND / NAME TAG 
33 PULSEOXYMETER CHARGES 
 
List III- Items that are to be subsumed into Procedure Charges 
 
List IV- Items that are to be subsumed into costs of treatment 
Sl. No. Item 
1 HAIR REMOVAL CREAM 
2 DISPOSABLES RAZORS CHARGES (for site preparations) 
3 EYE PAD 
4 EYE SHEILD 
5 CAMERA COVER 
6 DVD, CD CHARGES 
7 GAUSE SOFT 
8 GAUZE 
9 WARD AND THEATRE BOOKING CHARGES 
10 ARTHROSCOPY AND ENDOSCOPY INSTRUMENTS 
11 MICROSCOPE COVER  
12 SURGICAL BLADES, HARMONICSCALPEL,SHAVER 
13 SURGICAL DRILL 
14 EYE KIT  
15 EYE DRAPE 
16 X-RAY FILM 
17 BOYLES APPARATUS CHARGES 
18 COTTON 
19 COTTON BANDAGE 
20 SURGICAL TAPE 
21 APRON 
22 TORNIQUET  
23 ORTHOBUNDLE, GYNAEC BUNDLE 
Sl. No. Item 
1 ADMISSION/REGISTRATION CHARGES 

--- PAGE 17 ---

Corona Kavach Policy, Niva Bupa Health Insurance 
Product- Corona Kavach Policy, Niva Bupa Health Insurance Co. Ltd.   |   UIN- NBHHLIP22152V012122 
The name of the Company has been changed from Max Bupa Health Insurance Company Limited to Niva Bupa Health 
Insurance Company Limited effective 5th July, 2021 
Internal 
 
  
2 HOSPITALISATION FOR EVALUATION/ DIAGNOSTIC PURPOSE 
3 URINE CONTAINER 
4 BLOOD RESERVATION CHARGES AND ANTE NATAL BOOKING CHARGES  
5 BIPAP MACHINE 
6 CPAP/ CAPD EQUIPMENTS 
7 INFUSION PUMP– COST 
8 HYDROGEN PEROXIDE\SPIRIT\ DISINFECTANTS ETC 
9 NUTRITION PLANNING CHARGES - DIETICIAN CHARGES- DIET CHARGES  
10 HIV KIT 
11 ANTISEPTIC MOUTHWASH 
12 LOZENGES 
13 MOUTH PAINT 
14 VACCINATION CHARGES 
15 ALCOHOL SWABES 
16 SCRUB SOLUTION/STERILLIUM 
17 GLUCOMETER & STRIPS 
18 URINE BAG 

--- PAGE 18 ---

Corona Kavach Policy, Niva Bupa Health Insurance 
Product- Corona Kavach Policy, Niva Bupa Health Insurance Co. Ltd.   |   UIN- NBHHLIP22152V012122 
The name of the Company has been changed from Max Bupa Health Insurance Company Limited to Niva Bupa Health 
Insurance Company Limited effective 5th July, 2021 
Internal 
ANNEXURE-B 
Contact details of the Insurance Ombudsman Offices are as below 
 

--- PAGE 19 ---

Corona Kavach Policy, Niva Bupa Health Insurance 
Product- Corona Kavach Policy, Niva Bupa Health Insurance Co. Ltd.   |   UIN- NBHHLIP22152V012122 
The name of the Company has been changed from Max Bupa Health Insurance Company Limited to Niva Bupa Health 
Insurance Company Limited effective 5th July, 2021 
Internal 
Office Details Jurisdiction of Office  
Union Territory, District) 
AHMEDABAD - Shri Kuldip Singh 
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 
Jeevan Prakash Building, 6th floor, 
Tilak Marg, Relief Road, 
Ahmedabad – 380 001. 
Tel.: 079 - 25501201/02/05/06 
Email: bimalokpal.ahmedabad@cioins.co.in 
Gujarat, 
UT of Dadra & Nagar Haveli, 
Daman and Diu. 
BENGALURU - Smt. Neerja Shah 
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 
Jeevan Soudha Building,PID No. 57-27-N-19 
Ground Floor, 19/19, 24th Main Road, 
JP Nagar, Ist Phase, 
Bengaluru – 560 078. 
Tel.: 080 - 26652048 / 26652049 
Email: bimalokpal.bengaluru@cioins.co.in 
Karnataka. 
BHOPAL - Shri Guru Saran Shrivastava 
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 
Janak Vihar Complex, 2nd Floor, 
6, Malviya Nagar, Opp. Airtel Office, 
Near New Market, 
Bhopal – 462 003. 
Tel.: 0755 - 2769201 / 2769202 
Fax: 0755 - 2769203 
Email: bimalokpal.bhopal@cioins.co.in 
Madhya Pradesh 
Chhattisgarh. 
BHUBANESHWAR - Shri Suresh Chandra Panda 
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 
62, Forest park, 
Bhubneshwar – 751 009. 
Tel.: 0674 - 2596461 /2596455 
Fax: 0674 - 2596429 
Email: bimalokpal.bhubaneswar@cioins.co.in 
Orissa. 
CHANDIGARH - Dr. Dinesh Kumar Verma 
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 
S.C.O. No. 101, 102 & 103, 2nd Floor, 
Batra Building, Sector 17 – D, 
Chandigarh – 160 017. 
Tel.: 0172 - 2706196 / 2706468 
Fax: 0172 - 2708274 
Email: bimalokpal.chandigarh@cioins.co.in 
Punjab, 
Haryana (excluding Gurugram, Faridabad, 
Sonepat and Bahadurgarh), 
Himachal Pradesh, 
UT of Jammu & Kashmir, Ladakh and 
Chandigarh. 

--- PAGE 20 ---

Corona Kavach Policy, Niva Bupa Health Insurance 
Product- Corona Kavach Policy, Niva Bupa Health Insurance Co. Ltd.   |   UIN- NBHHLIP22152V012122 
The name of the Company has been changed from Max Bupa Health Insurance Company Limited to Niva Bupa Health 
Insurance Company Limited effective 5th July, 2021 
Internal 
CHENNAI - Shri M. Vasantha Krishna 
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 
Fatima Akhtar Court, 4th Floor, 453, 
Anna Salai, Teynampet, 
CHENNAI – 600 018. 
Tel.: 044 - 24333668 / 24335284 
Fax: 044 - 24333664 
Email: bimalokpal.chennai@cioins.co.in 
Tamil Nadu,UT- 
Pondicherry Town and 
Karaikal (which are part of UT of Pondicherry). 
DELHI - Shri Sudhir Krishna 
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 
2/2 A, Universal Insurance Building, 
Asaf Ali Road, 
New Delhi – 110 002. 
Tel.: 011 - 23232481/23213504 
Email: bimalokpal.delhi@cioins.co.in 
Delhi & 
Following Districts of Haryana - Gurugram, 
Faridabad, Sonepat & Bahadurgarh. 
GUWAHATI - Shri Kiriti .B. Saha 
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 
Jeevan Nivesh, 5th Floor, 
Nr. Panbazar over bridge, S.S. Road, 
Guwahati – 781001(ASSAM). 
Tel.: 0361 - 2632204 / 2602205 
Email: bimalokpal.guwahati@cioins.co.in 
Assam, 
Meghalaya, 
Manipur, 
Mizoram, 
Arunachal Pradesh, 
Nagaland and Tripura. 
HYDERABAD - Shri I. Suresh Babu 
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 
6-2-46, 1st floor, "Moin Court", 
Lane Opp. Saleem Function Palace, 
A. C. Guards, Lakdi-Ka-Pool, 
Hyderabad - 500 004. 
Tel.: 040 - 23312122 
Fax: 040 - 23376599 
Email: bimalokpal.hyderabad@cioins.co.in 
Andhra Pradesh, 
Telangana, UT of 
Yanam and  
part of UT of Pondicherry. 
JAIPUR - Smt. Sandhya Baliga 
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 
Jeevan Nidhi – II Bldg., Gr. Floor, 
Bhawani Singh Marg, 
Jaipur - 302 005. 
Tel.: 0141 - 2740363 
Email: bimalokpal.jaipur@cioins.co.in 
Rajasthan. 

--- PAGE 21 ---

Corona Kavach Policy, Niva Bupa Health Insurance 
Product- Corona Kavach Policy, Niva Bupa Health Insurance Co. Ltd.   |   UIN- NBHHLIP22152V012122 
The name of the Company has been changed from Max Bupa Health Insurance Company Limited to Niva Bupa Health 
Insurance Company Limited effective 5th July, 2021 
Internal 
ERNAKULAM - Ms. Poonam Bodra 
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 
2nd Floor, Pulinat Bldg., 
Opp. Cochin Shipyard, M. G. Road, 
Ernakulam - 682 015. 
Tel.: 0484 - 2358759 / 2359338 
Fax: 0484 - 2359336 
Email: bimalokpal.ernakulam@cioins.co.in 
Kerala, UT of Lakshadweep, Mahe-a part 
of UT of Pondicherry. 
KOLKATA - Shri P. K. Rath 
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 
Hindustan Bldg. Annexe, 4th Floor, 
4, C.R. Avenue, 
KOLKATA - 700 072. 
Tel.: 033 - 22124339 / 22124340 
Fax : 033 - 22124341 
Email: bimalokpal.kolkata@cioins.co.in 
West Bengal,  
Sikkim, UT of 
Andaman & Nicobar Islands. 
LUCKNOW -Shri Justice Anil Kumar Srivastava 
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 
6th Floor, Jeevan Bhawan, Phase-II, 
Nawal Kishore Road, Hazratganj, 
Lucknow - 226 001. 
Tel.: 0522 - 2231330 / 2231331 
Fax: 0522 - 2231310 
Email: bimalokpal.lucknow@cioins.co.in 
Districts of Uttar Pradesh : 
Lalitpur, Jhansi, Mahoba, Hamirpur, Banda, 
Chitrakoot, Allahabad, Mirzapur, Sonbhabdra, 
Fatehpur, Pratapgarh, Jaunpur,Varanasi, 
Gazipur, Jalaun, Kanpur, Lucknow, Unnao, 
Sitapur, Lakhimpur, Bahraich, Barabanki, 
Raebareli, Sravasti, Gonda, Faizabad, Amethi, 
Kaushambi, Balrampur, Basti, Ambedkarnagar, 
Sultanpur, Maharajgang, Santkabirnagar, 
Azamgarh, Kushinagar, Gorkhpur, Deoria, 
Mau, Ghazipur, Chandauli, Ballia, 
Sidharathnagar. 
MUMBAI - Shri Milind A. Kharat 
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 
3rd Floor, Jeevan Seva Annexe, 
S. V. Road, Santacruz (W), 
Mumbai - 400 054. 
Tel.: 022 - 26106552 / 26106960 
Fax: 022 - 26106052 
Email: bimalokpal.mumbai@cioins.co.in 
Goa,  
Mumbai Metropolitan Region  
excluding Navi Mumbai & Thane. 

--- PAGE 22 ---

Corona Kavach Policy, Niva Bupa Health Insurance 
Product- Corona Kavach Policy, Niva Bupa Health Insurance Co. Ltd.   |   UIN- NBHHLIP22152V012122 
The name of the Company has been changed from Max Bupa Health Insurance Company Limited to Niva Bupa Health 
Insurance Company Limited effective 5th July, 2021 
Internal 
NOIDA - Shri Chandra Shekhar Prasad 
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 
Bhagwan Sahai Palace 
4th Floor, Main Road, 
Naya Bans, Sector 15, 
Distt: Gautam Buddh Nagar, U.P-201301. 
Tel.: 0120-2514252 / 2514253 
Email: bimalokpal.noida@cioins.co.in  
State of Uttaranchal and the following 
Districts of Uttar Pradesh: 
Agra, Aligarh, Bagpat, Bareilly, Bijnor, Budaun, 
Bulandshehar, Etah, Kanooj, Mainpuri, 
Mathura, Meerut, Moradabad, Muzaffarnagar, 
Oraiyya, Pilibhit, Etawah, Farrukhabad, 
Firozbad, Gautambodhanagar, Ghaziabad, 
Hardoi, Shahjahanpur, Hapur, Shamli, Rampur, 
Kashganj, Sambhal, Amroha, Hathras, 
Kanshiramnagar, Saharanpur. 
PATNA - Shri N. K. Singh 
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 
1st Floor,Kalpana Arcade Building,, 
Bazar Samiti Road, 
Bahadurpur, Patna 800 006. 
Tel.: 0612-2680952 
Email: bimalokpal.patna@cioins.co.in 
Bihar, 
Jharkhand. 
PUNE - Shri Vinay Sah 
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 
Jeevan Darshan Bldg., 3rd Floor, 
C.T.S. No.s. 195 to 198, 
N.C. Kelkar Road, Narayan Peth, Pune – 411 030. 
Tel.: 020-41312555 
Email: bimalokpal.pune@cioins.co.in 
Maharashtra, 
Area of Navi Mumbai and Thane 
excluding Mumbai Metropolitan Region. 
 
EXECUTIVE COUNCIL OF INSURERS, 
3rd Floor, Jeevan Seva Annexe, 
S. V. Road, Santacruz (W), 
Mumbai - 400 054.  
Tel.: 022 - 69038801/03/04/05/06/07/08/09 
Email: inscoun@cioins.co.in 
Shri B. C. Patnaik, Secretary General 
Smt Poornima Gaitonde, Secretary