--- PAGE 1 ---

 
Health Plus   
 
Health Plus         UIN: NBHHLGP22157V032122 
 
 
Internal 
1. Preamble 
 
This is a contract of insurance between You and Us which is subject to the receipt of the full premium in 
advance and the terms, conditions and exclusions of this Policy. This Policy has been issued on the basis of 
the Disclosure to information norm, including the information provided by You in respect of the Insured 
Person/s in the Proposal form and accompanying documentation. 
 
Note:  
 You/ Insured Person shall on Your/his/her own expense, inform Us immediately of any change in the 
address, nature of job, state of health, or of any other changes affecting You or any Insured Person. 
 
 The terms listed in Section 2 (Definitions &  Interpretation) and used elsewhere in the Policy  
Document with Initial Capitals shall have the meaning set out against them in Section 5 wherever 
they appear in the Policy Document. For the remaining terms and words used, the usual meaning as 
described in standard English language dictionaries shall apply. The words and expressions defined 
in the Insurance Act 1938, IRDA I Act 1999, regulations notified by the IRDAI and circulars and 
guidelines issued by the IRDAI shall carry the meanings given therein. 
 
 Where the contex t permits, the singular will be deemed to include the plural, one gender shall be 
deemed to include the other genders and references to any statute shall be deemed to refer to any 
replacement or amendment of that statute. 
 
 
2. Definitions & Interpretation 
The terms listed below in Section 2 and used elsewhere in the Policy in Initial Capitals shall have the 
meaning set out against them in Section 5unless mentioned is any of the sections above separately. 
 
Standard Definitions: 
 
I. Accident or Accidental means a sudden, unforeseen and involuntary event caused by external, visible and 
violent means. 
 
II. Any one illness means continuous period of illness and includes relapse within 45 days from the date of 
last consultation with the Hospital /Nursing Home where treatment was taken. 
 
III. AYUSH Hospital: An AYUSH Hospital is a healthcare facility wherein medical/surgical/para -surgical 
treatment procedures and interventions are carried out by AYUSH  Medical Practitioner(s) comprising of 
any of the following: 
a. Central or State Government AYUSH Hospital; or 
b. Teaching hospital attached to AYUSH College recognized by the Central 
Government/Central Council of Indian Medicine/Central Council for Homeopathy; or 
c. AYUSH Hospital, standalone or co -located with i n-patient healthcare facility of any 
recognized system of medicine, registered with the local authorities, wherever 
applicable, and is under the supervision of a qualified registered AYUSH  Medical 
Practitioner and must comply with all the following criterion: 
i. Having at least 5 in-patient beds; 
ii. Having qualified AYUSH Medical Practitioner in charge round the clock; 

--- PAGE 2 ---

 
Health Plus   
 
Health Plus         UIN: NBHHLGP22157V032122 
 
 
Internal 
iii. Having dedicated AYUSH therapy sections as required and/or has equipped 
operation theatre where surgical procedures are to be carried out; 
iv. Maintaining daily records of the patients and making them accessible to 
the insurance company’s authorized representative. 
 
IV. AYUSH Day Care Centre means and includes Community Health Centre (CHC), Primary Health Centre 
(PHC), Dispensary, Clinic, Polyclinic or any such health centre which is registered with the local authorities, 
wherever applicable and having facilities for carrying out treatment procedures and medical or 
surgical/para-surgical interventions or both under the supervision of registered AYUSH  Medical 
Practitioner (s) on day care basis without in -patient services and must comply with all the following 
criterion: 
i. Having qualified registered AYUSH Medical Practitioner(s) in charge; 
ii.  Having dedicated AYUSH therapy sections as required and/or has equipped 
operation theatre where surgical procedures are to be carried out; 
iii. Maintaining daily records of the patients and making them accessible to the 
insurance company’s authorized representative. 
 
V. Cashless Facility means a facility extended by the insurer to the insured where the payments, of the costs 
of treatment undergone by the insured in accordance with the policy terms and conditions, are directly 
made to the network provider by the insurer to the extent pre-authorization is approved. 
 
VI. Condition Precedent shall mean a Policy term or condition upon which the Insurer's liability under the 
Policy is conditional upon. 
 
VII. Congenital Anomaly means a condition which is present since birth, and which is abnormal with 
reference to form, structure or position. 
a. Internal Congenital Anomaly: Congenital Anomaly which is not in the visible and accessible parts of the 
body. 
b. External Congenital Anomaly: Congenital Anomaly which is in the visible and accessible parts of th e 
body. 
 
VIII. Co-payment means a cost -sharing requirement under a health insurance policy that provides that the 
Policyholder/insured will bear a specified percentage of the admissible claim’s amount. A Co -payment 
does not reduce the Sum Insured. 
 
IX. Cumulative Bonus means any increase or addition in the Sum Insured granted by the insurer without an 
associated increase in premium. 
X. Day Care Centre means any institution established for Day Care Treatment of Illness and/or Injuries or a 
medical set -up with a Hospital and which has been registered with the local authorities, wherever 
applicable, and is under the supervision of a registered and qualifi ed Medical Practitioner AND must 
comply with all minimum criterion as under: 
a. has Qualified Nursing staff under its employment; 
b. has qualified Medical Practitioner(s) in charge; 
c. has a fully equipped operation theatre of its own  where Surgical Procedures are carried out; 
d. maintains daily records of patients and will make these accessible to the insurance company’s 
authorized personnel. 
XI. Day Care Treatment refers to medical treatment, and/or Surgical Procedure which is:   
a. undertaken under General or Local Anaest hesia in a Hospital/Day Care Center in less than 24 hrs 
because of technological advancement, and  

--- PAGE 3 ---

 
Health Plus   
 
Health Plus         UIN: NBHHLGP22157V032122 
 
 
Internal 
b. which would have otherwise required a Hospitalization of more than 24 hours. 
Treatment normally taken on an outpatient basis is not included in the scope of this definition.  
XII. Deductible means a cost -sharing requirement under a health insurance policy that provides that the 
Insurer will not be liable for a specified rupee amount in case of indemnity policies and for a specified 
number of days/hours in case of hospital cash policies which will apply before any benefits are payable by 
the insurer. A deductible does not reduce the Sum Insured. 
XIII. Dental Treatment means a treatment related to teeth or structures supporting teeth including 
examinations, fillings (where appropriate), crowns, extractions and Surgery. 
XIV. Disclosure to Information Norm means the Policy shall be void and all premium paid thereon shall be 
forfeited to the Company, in the event of misrepresentation, mis -description or non -disclosure of any 
material fact. 
XV. Domiciliary Hospitalization means medical treatment for an Illness/disease/Injury which in the normal 
course would require care and treatment at a Hospital but is actually taken while confined at home under 
any of the following circumstances: 
a. the condition of the patient is such that he/she is not in a condition to be removed to a Hospital, or  
b. the patient takes treatment at home on account of non-availability of room in a Hospital. 
XVI. Emergency means a medical condition or symptom resulting from Illne ss or Injury which arises suddenly 
and unexpectedly and requires immediate care and treatment by a Medical Practitioner to prevent death 
or serious long term impairment of the Insured Person’s health. 
XVII. Grace Period means the specified period of time immedia tely following the premium due date during 
which a payment can be made to renew or continue a policy in force without loss of continuity benefits 
such as Waiting Periods and coverage of Pre-existing Diseases. Coverage is not available for the period for 
which no premium is received. 
XVIII. Hospital means any institution established for Inpatient Care and Day Care Treatment of Illness and / or 
Injuries and which has been registered as a Hospital with the local authorities under the Clinical 
Establishments (Registration and Regulation) Act, 2010 or under  enactments specified under the 
Schedule of Section 56(1) of the said Act OR complies with all minimum criteria as under: 
a. has Qualified Nursing staff  under its employment round the clock;  
b. has at least 10 I npatient beds in towns having a population of less than 10,00,000 and at least 15 
Inpatient beds in all other places;  
c. has qualified Medical Practitioner(s) in charge round the clock;  
d. has a fully equipped operation theatre of its own where Surgical Procedures are carried out;  
e. maintains daily records of patients and makes these accessible to the Insurance company’s 
authorized personnel. 
XIX. Hospitalization or Hospitalized means the admission in a Hospital for a minimum period of 24 
consecutive Inpatient Care h ours except for specified procedures/treatments, where such admission 
could be for a period of less than 24 consecutive hours. 
XX. ICU (Intensive Care Unit) Charges  means the amount charged by a Hospital towards ICU expenses which 
shall include the expenses fo r ICU bed, general medical support services provided to any ICU patient 
including monitoring devices, critical care nursing and intensivist charges. 
XXI. Illness means a sickness or a disease or pathological condition leading to the impairment of normal 
physiological function and requires medical treatment. 
(a) Acute condition - Acute condition is a disease, illness or injury that is likely to respond quickly to 
treatment which aims to return the person to his or her state of health immediately before suffering the 
disease/ illness/ injury which leads to full recovery 
(b) Chronic condition - A chronic condition is defined as a disease, illness, or injury that has one or more 
of the following characteristics: 

--- PAGE 4 ---

 
Health Plus   
 
Health Plus         UIN: NBHHLGP22157V032122 
 
 
Internal 
i. it needs ongoing or long -term monitoring through consultations, examinations, check-ups, and /or 
tests 
ii. it needs ongoing or long-term control or relief of symptoms 
iii. it requires rehabilitation for the patient or for the patient to be specially trained to cope with it 
iv. it continues indefinitely 
v. it recurs or is likely to recur 
XXII. Injury means accidental physical bodily harm excluding Illness or disease solely and directly caused by 
external, violent and visible and evident means which is verified and certified by a Medical Practitioner. 
XXIII. Intensive Care Unit means an identified section, ward or wing of a Hospital which is under the constant 
supervision of a dedicated Medical Practitioner(s), and which is specially equipped for the continuous 
monitoring and treatment of patients who are in a critical condition, or requi re life support facilities and 
where the level of care and supervision is considerably more sophisticated and intensive than in the 
ordinary and other wards. 
XXIV. Inpatient Care means treatment for which the Insured Person has to stay in a Hospital for more than 24 
hours for a covered event. 
XXV. Maternity expenses: Maternity expenses means; 
a. medical treatment expenses traceable to childbirth (including complicated 
deliveries and caesarean sections incurred during hospitalization); 
b. expenses towards lawful medical termination of pregnancy during the policy period 
XXVI. Medical Advice means any consultation or advice from a Medical Practitioner including the issuance of 
any prescription or follow-up prescription. 
XXVII. Medical Expenses means those expenses that an Insured Person has necessarily and actually incurred for 
medical treatment on account of Illness or Accident on the advice of a Medical Practitioner, as long as 
these are no more than would have been payable if the Insured Person had not been insured and no more 
than other Hospitals or doctors in the same locality would have charged for the same medical treatment. 
XXVIII. Medical Practitioner means a person who holds a valid registration from the Medical Council of any State 
or Medical Council of India or Council for Indian Medi cine or for Homeopathy set up by the Government 
of India or a State Government and is thereby entitled to practice medicine within its jurisdiction; and is 
acting within the scope and jurisdiction of his licence. 
XXIX. Medically Necessary Treatment  means any tre atment, tests, medication, or stay in Hospital or stay in 
Hospital or part of a stay in hospital which: 
a. is required for the medical management of the Illness or Injury suffered by the insured;  
b. must not exceed the level of care necessary to provide safe, a dequate and appropriate medical care 
in scope, duration, or intensity;  
c. must have been prescribed by a Medical Practitioner;  
d. must conform to the professional standards widely accepted in international med ical practice or by 
the medical community in India. 
XXX. Migration means the right accorded to individual health insurance policyholders (including all members 
under family cover   and members of group health insurance policy), to transfer the credit gained for pre -
existing conditions and time bound exclusions, with the same insurer.  
XXXI. Network Provider means Hospital or health care providers enlisted by an insurer, TPA or jointly by an 
insurer and TPA to provide medical services to an insured by a Cashless Facility.  
XXXII. New Born Baby: Newborn baby means baby born during the Policy Period and is aged up to 90 days 
XXXIII. Notification of Claim means the process of intimating a claim to the insurer or TPA through any of the 
recognized modes of communication. 
XXXIV. Non-Network Provider means any Hospital, Day Care Center  or other provider that is not part of the 
network. 

--- PAGE 5 ---

 
Health Plus   
 
Health Plus         UIN: NBHHLGP22157V032122 
 
 
Internal 
XXXV. OPD Treatment means the one in which the Insured visits a clinic / Hospital or associated facility like a 
consultation room for diagnosis and treatment based on the advice of a Medical Practitioner. The Insured 
is not admitted as a day care or In-patient.  
XXXVI. Pre-existing Disease means any condition, ailment, injury or disease 
a. That is/are diagnosed by a physician within 48 months  prior to the effective date of the policy issued 
by the insurer or its reinstatement or 
b. For which medical advice or treatment was recommended by, or received from, a physician within 48 
months prior to the effective date of the policy issued by the insurer or its reinstatement. 
XXXVII. Pre-hospitalization Medical Expenses  means medical expen ses incurred during pre -defined number of 
days preceding the hospitalization of the Insured Person, provided that: 
a. Such Medical Expenses are incurred for the same condition for which the Insured Person’s 
Hospitalization was required, and 
b. The Inpatient Hospitalization claim for such Hospitalization is admissible by the Insurance Company. 
XXXVIII. Post-hospitalization Medical Expenses means medical expenses incurred during pre -defined number of 
days immediately after the Insured Person is discharged from the Hospital, provided that: 
a. Such Medical Expenses are for the same condition for which the Insured Person’s Hospitalization was 
required, and 
b. The Inpatient Hospitalization claim for such Hospitalization is admissible by the Insurance Company. 
XXXIX. Portability means the rig ht accorded to an individual health insurance policyholder s (including all 
members under the family cover), to transfer the credit gained for pre-existing conditions and time bound 
exclusions, from one insurer to another insurer. 
XL. Qualified Nurse means a person who holds a valid registration from the Nursing Council of India or the 
Nursing Council of any state in India. 
XLI. Reasonable and Customary Charges means the charges for services or supplies, which are the standard 
charges for the specific provider and consistent with the prevailing charges in the geographical area for 
identical or similar services, taking into account the nature of the Illness / Injury involved. 
XLII. Renewal means the terms on which the contract of insurance can be renewed on mutual consent with a 
provision of Grace Period for treating the renewal continuous for the purpose of gaining credit for pre -
existing diseases, time bound exclusions and for all Waiting Periods. 
XLIII. Room Rent means the amount charged by a Hospital towards Room and Boarding expenses and shall 
include the Associated Medical Expenses. 
 
XLIV. Surgery or Surgical Procedure means manual and / or operative procedure (s) required for treatment of 
an Illness or Injury, correction of deformities and defects, diagnosis and cure of diseases, relief from 
suffering or prolongation of life, performed in a Hospital or Day Care Centre by a Medical Practitioner. 
XLV. Unproven/Experimental treatment: Unproven/Experimental treatment means the treatment including 
drug experimental therapy which is not based  on established medical practice in India, is treatment 
experimental or unproven 
 
 
Specific Definitions: 
 
XLVI. Age means age of the Insured person on last birthday as on date of commencement of the Policy. 
 
XLVII. AYUSH Treatment refers to the medical and / or hospitalization treatments given under Ayurveda, Yoga 
and Naturopathy, Unani, Sidha and Homeopathy systems. 
 

--- PAGE 6 ---

 
Health Plus   
 
Health Plus         UIN: NBHHLGP22157V032122 
 
 
Internal 
XLVIII. Base Sum Insured means the amount stated in the Policy Schedule. 
XLIX. Bone Marrow Transplant  is the actual undergoing of a transplant of human bone marrow using 
haematopoietic stem cells. The undergoing of a transplant has to be confirmed by a specialist medical 
practitioner. The following will be excluded: 
i. Other stem-cell transplants 
ii. Where only islets of langerhans are transplanted 
L. Break in Policy means the period of gap that occurs at the end of the existing policy term, when the 
premium due for renewal on a given policy is not paid on or before the premium renewal date or within 
30 days thereof. 
LI. Associated Medical Expenses shall include Room Rent, nursing charges, Medical Practitioners’ and 
operation theatre charges 
LII. Critical Illness, an Illness, medical event or Surgical Procedure specifically defined in Section 3.7.1 
LIII. Diagnostic Services means those diagnostic tests and exploratory or therapeutic procedures required for 
the detection, identification and treatment of a medical condition. 
LIV. Evidence Based Clinical Practice means process of making clinical decisions for Inpatient Care using 
current best evidence in conjugation with clinical expertise. 
LV. e-Consultation means opinion from a Medical Practitioner who holds a valid registration from the medical 
council of any state or medical council of India or council for Indian medicine or for homeopathy set up by 
the Government of India or a state government and is thereby entitled to practice medicine within its 
jurisdiction; and is acting within the scope and jurisdiction of his license. 
LVI. Family Floater Policy means a Policy described as such in t he Policy Schedule where the family members 
(two or more) named in the Policy Schedule are Insured Persons under this Policy. Only the following 
family members can be covered under a Family Floater Policy: 
a. Primary Insured Person; and/or  
b. Primary Insured Person’s legally married spouse (for as long as she/he continues to be married to the 
Primary Insured Person); and/or  
c. Primary Insured Person’s children who are less than 25 years of Age on the commencement of the 
Policy Period (a maximum 4 children can be covered under the Policy as Insured Persons). 
LVII. First Policy means for the purposes of this Policy the Policy Schedule issued to the Policyholder at the 
time of inception of the first Policy mentioned in the Policy Schedule with Us. 
LVIII. Information Summary Sheet means the information and details provided to Us or Our representatives 
over the telephone for the purposes of applying for this Policy which has been recorded by Us and 
confirmed by You. 
LIX. Individual Policy means a Policy described as such in the Policy Sch edule where the individual named in 
the Policy Schedule is the Insured Person under this Policy. 
LX. Inpatient means admission for treatment in a Hospital for more than 24 hours for an Insured Event.  
LXI. Insured Event means any event specifically mentioned as covered under this Policy. 
LXII. Insured Person means person(s) named as insured persons in the Policy Schedule.   
LXIII. IRDAI means the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India.  
LXIV. Medical Record means the colle ction of information as submitted in claim documentation concerning a 
Insured Person’s Illness or Injury that is created and maintained in the regular course of management, 
made by Medical Practitioners who have knowledge of the acts, events, opinions or d iagnoses relating to 
the Insured Person’s Illness or Injury, and made at or around the time indicated in the documentation. 
LXV. Mental Illness means a substantial disorder of thinking, mood, perception, orientation or memory that 
grossly impairs judgment, behaviour, capacity to recognise reality or ability to meet the ordinary demands 
of life, mental conditions associated with the abuse of alcohol and drugs, but does not include mental 

--- PAGE 7 ---

 
Health Plus   
 
Health Plus         UIN: NBHHLGP22157V032122 
 
 
Internal 
retardation which is a condition of arrested or incomplete development of mi nd of a person, specially 
characterised by subnormality of intelligence. 
LXVI. Off-label drug or treatment means use of pharmaceutical drug for an unapproved indication or  in an 
unapproved age group, dosage or route of administration. 
LXVII. Policy means these terms an d conditions, the Policy Schedule (as amended from time to time), Your 
statements in the Proposal and the Information Summary Sheet and any endorsements attached by Us to 
the Policy from time to time.  
LXVIII. Policy Period is the period between the inception date and the expiry date of the Policy as specified in 
the Policy Schedule or the date of cancellation of this Policy, whichever is earlier. 
LXIX. Policy Year means the period of one year commencing on the date of commencement specified in the 
Policy Schedule or any anniversary thereof. 
LXX. Policy Schedule means a certificate issued by Us, and, if more than one, then the latest in time. The Policy 
Schedule contains details of the Policyholder, Insured Persons, the Sum Insured and other relevant details 
related to the coverage. 
LXXI. Primary Insured Person  means the Policyholder if he/she is covered under the Policy as an Insured 
Person. In case Policyholder is not an Insured Person, then Primary Insured Person will be the eldest 
Insured Person covered under the Policy.  
LXXII. Reimbursement means settlement of claims paid directly by Us to the Policyholder/Insured Person. 
LXXIII. Service Provider means any person, organization, institution that has been empanelled with Us to provide 
services specified under the benefits to the Insured Person.  
LXXIV. Single Private Room means an air conditioned room in a Hospital where a single patient is accommodated 
and which has an attached toilet (lavatory and bath). Such room type shall be the most basic and the most 
economical of all accommodations available as a single room in that Hospital.  
LXXV. Standby Services are services of another Medical Practitioner requested by treating Medical Practitioner 
and involving prolonged attendance without direct (face-to-face) patient contact or involvement. 
LXXVI. Sum Insured  means the total of the Base Sum Insured which is Our maximum, total and cumulative 
liability for any and all claims during the Policy Year in respect of all Insured Person(s) which is specified in 
the Policy Schedule.  
LXXVII. Survival Period means the period, if  any, specified under the Policy after the occurrence of an Insured 
Event that the Insured Person has to survive before a claim becomes admissible under the Policy. 
LXXVIII. Waiting Period means a time -bound exclusion period related to condition(s) specified in the  Policy 
Schedule or the Policy which shall be served before a claim related to such condition(s) becomes 
admissible.  
LXXIX. We/Our/Us means Niva Bupa Health Insurance Company Limited. 
You/Your/Policyholder means the person named in the Policy Schedule who has concluded this Policy with 
Us. 
 
 
3. Scope of Cover: Benefits 
 
The terms, conditions and exclusions governing the Benefits under this Policy are described below. The 
Policy Schedule/Certificate of Insurance will specify which Benefits are in force and available for the Insured 
Person. Benefits are effective only during the Operative Time as shown in the Policy Schedule/ Certificate of 
Insurance. 
 

--- PAGE 8 ---

 
Health Plus   
 
Health Plus         UIN: NBHHLGP22157V032122 
 
 
Internal 
a. The Benefits listed in the sections below will be payable subject to the terms, conditions and exclusions 
of this Policy,the availability of the BenefitSum Insured and any limits/sub-limits specified in the Policy 
Schedule/Certificate of Insurance as applicable under the Benefits in force for the Insured Person. 
 
b. All claims for any Benefits under the Policy must be made in accordance with the claim process defined 
under the respective section in which the Benefit is being claimed. 
 
c. The expenses that are not covered or subsumed into room charges / procedure charges / costs of 
treatment are mentioned in Annexure III. 
 
3.1. Hospitalization Cover: 
We will indemnify the Medical Expenses incurred in respect of an Insured Personin accordance with the 
terms and conditions of the Benefits below in relation to any Illness suffered or Injury sustained during the 
Policy Period provided that the treatment undertaken is Medically Necessary Treatment and is carried out 
on the written advice of a Medical Practitioner. 
 
 
3.1.1. Coverage Options: 
 
3.1.1.1. Inpatient Care 
 
What is covered: 
We will indemnify the Medical Expenses incurred on the Insured Person’s Hospitalization following an Illness 
or Injury that occurs during the Policy Period. 
 
Conditions: 
a. The Hospitalization is for Medically Necessary Treatment, is carried out on the written advice of a 
Medical Practitioner and follows Evidence Based Clinical Practices and standard treatment guidelines. 
b. The Medical Expenses incurred are Reasonable and Custo mary Charges  for one or more of the 
following: 
i. Room Rent; 
ii. Nursing charges for Hospitalization as an Inpatient excluding private nursing charges; 
iii. Medical Practitioners’ fees, excluding any charges or fees for Standby Services; 
iv. Physiotherapy, investigation and diagnostics procedures directly related to the current admission; 
v. Medicines and drugs as prescribed by the treating Medical Practitioner; 
vi. Intravenous fluids, blood transfusion, injection administration charges, allowable consumables 
and / or enteral feedings. 
vii. Operation theatre charges; 
viii. The cost of prosthetics and other devices or equipment, if implanted internally during Surgery; 
ix. ICU Charges. 
x. If the Insured Person is admitted in a Hospital room where the room category opted or Room Rent 
incurred is higher than the eligibility as specified in the Policy Schedule, then We shall be liable to 
pay only a pro-rated portion of the total Associated Medical Expenses (including surcharge or taxes 
thereon) as per the following formula: 
 
(Eligible Room Rent limit / Room Rent actually incurred) * total Associated Medical Expenses 

--- PAGE 9 ---

 
Health Plus   
 
Health Plus         UIN: NBHHLGP22157V032122 
 
 
Internal 
 
Associated Medical Expenses shall include Room Rent, nursing charges, Medical Practitioners’ fees and 
operation theatre charges.  
 
Proportionate deductions will not be applie d If the claim is of a hospitals which do not follow differential 
billing or for those expenses in respect of which differential billing is not adopted based on the room 
category.  
 
What is not covered: 
a. We shall not be liable to pay the visiting fees or consultation charges for any Medical Practitioner 
visiting the Insured Person unless: 
i. The Medical Practitioner’s treatment or advice has been sought by the Hospital; and  
ii. The visiting fees or consultation charges are included in the Hospital’s bill; and 
iii. The visiting fees or consultation charges are not more than the treating or referral Medical 
Practitioner’s consultation charges. 
 
3.1.1.2. Pre-hospitalization Medical Expenses 
 
What is covered: 
 
Wewill indemnify the Insured Person’s Pre-hospitalization Medical Expenses incurred following an Illness or 
Injury. 
Conditions: 
a. We have accepted a claim under Section 3.1.1.1 (Inpatient Care) above  in respect of that Insured 
Person for the same period of Hospitalization. 
b. We shall not be liable to pay any Pre-hospitalization Medical Expenses for more than the number of 
days specified in the Policy Schedule/Certificate of Insurance immediately preceding the Insured 
Person’s admission to Hospital for Inpatient Care or such expenses incurred prior to inception  of 
the First Policy with Us. 
c. Pre-hospitalization Medical Expenses can be claimed under this Section on a Reimbursement basis 
only. 
d. This Benefit is not applicable for any expenses incurred outside India. 
e. Pre-hospitalization Medical Expenses incurred on physiotherapy will also be payable provided that 
such physiotherapy is Medically NecessaryTreatment and advised in writing by the treating Medical 
Practitioner. 
 
3.1.1.3. Post-hospitalization Medical Expenses 
 
What is covered: 
 
Wewill indemnify the Insured Person’s Post-hospitalization Medical Expenses incurred following an Illness or 
Injury. 
 
Conditions: 
a. We have accepted a claim under Section 3.1.1.1 (Inpatient Care) above. 

--- PAGE 10 ---

 
Health Plus   
 
Health Plus         UIN: NBHHLGP22157V032122 
 
 
Internal 
b. We shall not be liable to pay any Post-hospitalization Medical Expenses for more than the number 
of days specified in the Policy Schedule/Certificate of Insurance immediately following the Insured 
Person’s discharge from Hospital. 
c. Post-hospitalization Medical Expenses can be claimed under this Section on a Reimbursement basis 
only. 
d. This Benefit is not applicable for expenses incurred outside India. 
e. Post-hospitalization Medical Expenses incurred on physiotherapy will also be payable provided that 
such physiotherapy is Medically Necessary Treatmentand advised in writing by the treating Medical 
Practitioner. 
 
3.1.1.4. Day Care Treatment 
 
We will indemnify the Medical Expenses incurred on the Insured Person’s Day Care Treatment following an 
Illness or Injury that occurs during the Policy Period. 
 
Conditions: 
a. The Day Care Treatment is for Medically Necessary Treatment and is carried out on the written 
advice of a Medical Practitioner. 
b. The Medical Expenses incurred are Reasonable and Customary Charges  for any procedure where 
such procedure is undertaken by an Insured Person as Day Care Treatment.  
c. The list of admissible Day Care Treatment would be as per the list attached. 
d. We shall not cover any OPD Treatment and Diagnostic Services under this Benefit. 
 
3.1.1.5. Inpatient Care under Alternative Treatment 
 
What is covered: 
 
We will indemnify the Charges for Medical Expenses  incurred during the Policy Period on 
treatment taken under Ayurveda, Unani, Sidha and Homeopathy in AYUSHHospital 
Conditions: 
a. The Hospitalization is for Medically Necessary Treatment and is carried out on the written advice of 
a Medical Practitioner. 
b. The Medical Expenses incurred are Reasonable and Customary Charges. 
c. If We accept any claim under this Benefit, then We will not make any payment under this Policy for 
any allopathic treatment taken by the Insured Person in respect of the same Illness or Injury. 
d. Our maximum , total and cumulative  liability under this Benefit shall be limited to the amount 
specified in the Policy Schedule/Certificate of Insurance. 
e. Pre-hospitalization Medical Expenses incurred for up to the number of days specified in the Policy 
Schedule/Certificate of Insurance  prior to the Alternative Treatment being commenced and Post -
hospitalization Medical Expenses incurred for up to the number of days specified in the Policy 
Schedule/Certificate of Insurance following the Alternative Treatment being concluded will also be 
indemnified under this Benefit provided that these Medical Expenses relate to the Alternative 
Treatment only and not to any allopathic treatment. 
f. Section 3.1.2.B.ii of the Permanent Exclusions shall not apply only to the extent that this Benefit is 
applicable. 
 

--- PAGE 11 ---

 
Health Plus   
 
Health Plus         UIN: NBHHLGP22157V032122 
 
 
Internal 
3.1.1.6. Domiciliary Hospitalization 
 
What is covered: 
 
Wewill indemnify the Medical Expenses incurred for the Insured Person’s Domiciliary Hospitalization 
following an Illness or Injury that occurs during the Policy Period. 
 
Conditions: 
a. The Domiciliary Hospitalization is for Medically Necessary Treatment  and is carried out on the 
written advice of a Medical Practitioner. 
b. The Medical Expenses incurred are Reasonable and Customary Charges. 
c. Medical Expenses can be claimed under this Section on a Reimbursement basis only. 
d. The Domiciliary Hospitalization continues for at least 3 consecutive days in which case We will 
make payment under this Benefit in respect of Medical Expenses incurred from the first day of 
Domiciliary Hospitalization. 
 
3.1.1.7. Organ Transplant 
 
What is covered: 
 
Wewill indemnify the Medical Expenses incurred for a living organ donor’s Inpatient treatment for the 
harvesting of the organ donated during the Policy Period. 
 
Conditions: 
a. The donation conforms to The Transplantation of Human Organs Act 1994 and amendments 
thereafter and the organ is for the use of the Insured Person. 
b. The recipient Insured Person has been Medically Advised in writing to undergo an organ transplant. 
c. We have accepted the recipient Insured Person’s claim under Section 3.1.1.1 (Inpatient Care). 
d. The Medical Expenses incurred are Reasonable and Customary Charges. 
 
What is not covered: 
We shall not be liable to make any payment in respect of: 
a. The living organ donor's stay in a Hospital that is needed for them to donate their organ. 
b. Stem cell donation except for Bone Marrow Transplant. 
c. Pre-hospitalization Medical Expenses or Post-hospitalization Medical Expenses of the organ donor. 
d. Screening or any other Medical Expenses of the organ donor. 
e. Costs directly or indirectly associated with the acquisition of the donor’s organ. 
f. Transplant of any organ/tissue where the transplant is experimental or investigational. 
g. Expenses related to organ transportation or preservation. 
h. Any other medical treatment or complication in respect of the donor, consequent to harvesting. 
 
3.1.1.8. Maternity Expenses 
 
What is covered: 
 

--- PAGE 12 ---

 
Health Plus   
 
Health Plus         UIN: NBHHLGP22157V032122 
 
 
Internal 
We will indemnify the Medical Expenses incurred towards Medically Necessary Treatment of the Insured Person 
in case of normal delivery, routine or elective Caesarean or Complicated Pregnancy during the Policy Period. 
Conditions: 
a. This Benefit is available only if 
i. the female Insured Person isAge 18 years or above 
ii. Both the Insured Person and his / her legally married spouse are covered under a Family Floater 
Policy. 
b. This Benefit cannot be availed under an Individual Cover. 
c. The female Insured Person in respect of whom a claim for Maternity Expenses is made must have been 
covered as an Insured Person  for at least the period specified in the Policy Schedule / Certificate of 
Insurance of continuous coverage since the inception of the First Policy with Us, with maternity as a 
Benefit. 
d. The Maternity Expenses incurred are Reasonable and Customary Charges.  
e. The Maternity Benefit may be claimed under the Policy in respect of eligible Insured Person(s) only 
twice during the lifetime of the Policy  including any Renewal thereafter for the delivery of a child or 
Medically Necessary Treatment and lawful termination of pregnancy up to maximum of 2 pregnancies 
or terminations. 
f. Any treatment related to the complication of pregnancy or termination will be treated  within the 
maternity limits. 
g. On Renewal, if an enhanced Maternity Sum Insured is proposed, the specified period of continuous 
coverage (as per Section 3.1.1.8.c) would apply afresh to the extent of the increased Benefit amount. 
h. Re-Fill Sum Insured Benefit will not be available for any claims made under this Section. 
i. XII of the Permanent Exclusions shall not apply only to the extent that this Benefit is applicable. 
 
For the purpose of this Section, “Complicated Pregnancy” means a medical condition arising during the antenatal 
stages of pregnancy or a medical condition arising during childbirth that requires a recognized obstetric 
procedure and post natal check-ups as a result of the complication of pregnancy for a period up to six weeks. 
 
What is not covered: 
 
We shall not be liable to make any payment in respect of the following: 
a. Expenses incurred in respect of the harvesting and storage of stem cells when carried out  as a 
preventive measure against possible future Illnesses; 
b. Medical Expenses for ectopic pregnancy will be covered under Section 3.1.1.1 (Inpatient Care) and shall 
not fall under this Benefit. 
 
3.1.1.9. New Born Baby Cover 
 
What is covered: 
 
We will indemnify the Medical Expenses incurred during the Policy Period, towards the Medically Necessary 
Treatment of the New Born Baby up to the limit specified in the Policy Schedule/Certificate of Insurance  for 
upto 90 days from the date of delivery. 
 
Conditions: 
a. The mother is an Insured Person under the Policy. 

--- PAGE 13 ---

 
Health Plus   
 
Health Plus         UIN: NBHHLGP22157V032122 
 
 
Internal 
b. The Maternity Benefit Cover is in force for the mother under the Policy. 
c. We have accepted a claim under Section 3.1.1.8 (Maternity Expenses) above in respect of the same 
delivery 
d. A New Born Baby older than 90 days can be covered under the Policy as an Insured Person only by way 
of an endorsement or at the next Renewal, whichever is earlier, on payment of the additional 
premium. 
 
3.1.1.10. New Born Vaccination Cover 
 
What is covered: 
 
We will indemnify the expenses incurred during the Policy Periodon vaccination specified in Annexure V of 
the New Born Baby till he/she completes 1 year of Age. 
 
Conditions: 
a. Coverage of the New Born Baby on birth shall be subject to the addition of the New Born B aby as an 
Insured Person under the Policy by way of an endorsement or at the next Renewal whichever is earlier 
on payment of the requisite premium. 
b. The expenses incurred are Reasonable and Customary Charges.  
c. Expenses can be claimed under this Section on a Reimbursement basis only. 
 
3.1.1.11. Pre and Post Natal Expenses 
 
What is covered: 
 
We will indemnify the Medical Expenses incurred during the Policy Year, in respect of pre - natal check-ups 
since confirmation of pregnancy, postnatal check-ups for a period up to six weeks from delivery, prescribed 
prenatal medicines and diagnostic tests up to the limit specified in the Policy Schedule / Certificate of 
Insurance. 
 
Conditions: 
a. The Medical Expenses incurred are Reasonable and Customary Charges.  
b. We have accepted a claim under Section 3.1.1.8 (Maternity Expenses) above in respect of the same 
delivery 
c. Expenses can be claimed under this Section on a Reimbursement basis only. 
 
What is not covered: 
We will not be liable to make any payment in respect of any Pre -hospitalization Medical Expenses or Post–
hospitalization Medical Expenses under Section 3.1.1.2 or Section 3.1.1.3 in relation to any claims made 
under this Benefit. 
 
3.1.1.12. Cord Blood Banking Cost Cover 
 
What is covered: 
 

--- PAGE 14 ---

 
Health Plus   
 
Health Plus         UIN: NBHHLGP22157V032122 
 
 
Internal 
We will indemnify the Medical Expenses incurred during the Policy Period, in respect of the collection and 
storage of the umbilical cord blood as a one-time benefit for one episode of pregnancy only post delivery in 
a lifetime. 
 
Conditions: 
a. We have accepted a claim under Section 3.1.1.8 (Maternity Expenses) above in respect of the same 
delivery 
b. Our maximum, total and cumulative  liability under this Benefit shall be lower of the actual 
expenses incurred and the limit specified in the Policy Schedule/ Certificate of Insurance. 
c. Exclusion ‘a’ specified under Section 3.1.1.8 (Maternity Benefit) shall not apply only to the extent 
that this Benefit is applicable. 
 
For the purpose of this Benefit, prophylactic collection and storage of umbilical cord blood is considered 
investigational and not medically necessary when proposed for an unspecified future use for an autologous 
stem cell transplant in the original donor or for an unspecified future use as an allogeneic stem cell 
transplant in a related or unrelated donor and this Benefit does not provide assurance further about use of 
umbilical cord blood/stem cell apart from one time storage. 
 
3.1.1.13. Emergency Ground Ambulance- Within India 
 
What is covered: 
 
We will indemnify the expenses incurred on an ambulance during the Policy Period to transfer the Insured 
Person by surface transport following an Emergency. 
 
Conditions: 
a. The medical condition of the Insured Person requires immediate ambulance services from the place 
where the Insured Person is Injured or is ill to a Hospital where appropriate medical treatment can be 
obtained or from the existing Hospital to another Hospital with advanced facilities as advised by t he 
treating Medical Practitioner in writing for management of the current Hospitalization. 
b. The expenses incurred are Reasonable and Customary Charges. 
c. This Benefit is available for only one transfer per period of Hospitalization. 
d.  The ambulance service is offered by a healthcare or ambulance Service Provider. 
e. We have accepted a claim under Section 3.1.1.1 (Inpatient Care) above in respect of the same period of 
Hospitalization. 
f. If the ambulance is provided by a Non -Network Provider, We will cover expenses incurred only up to 
the amount specified in the Policy Schedule/Certificate of Insurance. 
 
What is not covered: 
 
We will not make any payment under this Benefit if the Insured Person is transferred to any Hospital or 
diagnostic centre for evaluation purposes only. 
 
3.1.1.14. Air Ambulance Cover 
 
What is covered: 

--- PAGE 15 ---

 
Health Plus   
 
Health Plus         UIN: NBHHLGP22157V032122 
 
 
Internal 
 
We will  indemnify the expenses incurred on an air ambulance during the Policy Period to transport the 
Insured Person to the nearest Hospital following an Emergency within India  
 
Conditions: 
 
a. The medical condition of the Insured Person requires immediate ambulance services from the place 
where the Insured Person is Injured or is ill to a Hospital where appropriate medical treatment can be 
obtained or from the existing Hospital to another Hospit al with advanced facilities as advised by the 
treating Medical Practitioner in writing for management of the current Hospitalization. 
b. The expenses incurred are Reasonable and Customary Charges. 
c. This Benefit is available for only one transfer per period of Hospitalization. 
d. The ambulance service is offered by a healthcare or ambulance Service Provider. 
e. We have accepted a claim under Section 3.1.1.1 (Inpatient Care) above in respect of the same period of 
Hospitalization. 
f. The transportation should be provided  by medically equipped aircraft which can provide medical care 
in flight and should have medical equipment vital to monitoring and treating the Insured Person 
suffering from an Illness/Injury such as but not limited to ventilators, ECGs, monitoring units, CPR 
equipment and stretchers. 
 
3.1.1.15. Prosthetics Cover 
 
What is covered: 
 
If an Insured Person suffers an Injury or an Illness during the Policy Period that solely and directly results in 
physical loss of limb(s) within three hundred and sixty five (365) days from the date of the occurrence of 
such Accident or Illness, We will indemnify the cost of buying the Prosthetic as specified in Annexure VIII. 
 
Conditions: 
a. We have accepted a claim under Section 3.1.1.1 (Inpatient Care) above. 
b. Our maximum, total and cumulative  liability under this Benefit shall be lower of the actual expenses 
incurred and the limit as per the option specified in the Policy Schedule/Certificate of Insurance. 
c. Medical Expenses can be claimed under this Section on a Reimbursement basis only. 
d. This B enefit shall be payable for only one limb once in the Insured Person’s lifetime irrespective of 
single or multiple limb loss. 
e. The permanence of total and irreversible loss of limb shall be proved with a disability certificate issued 
by a Medical Board duly constituted by the Central or the State Government being presented to Us. 
For the purpose of this Benefit, Prosthetics means the articles or equipment that replaces al l or a part of a 
limb where limb is defined as the arm / the leg of a person. 
 
What is not covered: 
 
a. Any repairs or replacement of the Prosthetic. 
b. Durable Medical Equipment which means equipment that can withstand repeated use, is primarily and 
customarily used to serve a medical purpose, and generally is not useful to a person in the absence of 
an Illness or Injury, and is appropriate for use in the home. 

--- PAGE 16 ---

 
Health Plus   
 
Health Plus         UIN: NBHHLGP22157V032122 
 
 
Internal 
c. Orthotics which means d evices that are designed to support a weakened body part  and where these 
appliances are manufactured or custom-fitted to an individual member. 
 
3.1.1.16. Compassionate Visit  
 
What is covered: 
 
If an Insured Person suffers an Injury or an Illness during the Policy Period that solely and directly results in 
the Insured Person’s Hospitalization for more than seven (7) consecutive days We will indemnify the 
expenses incurred in respect of travel of one Immediate Family member of the Insured Person to the place 
of Hospitalization of the Insured Person. 
 
Conditions: 
 
a. No adult member of the Insured Person’s Immediate Family is present within a distance of at least 150 
kilometers from the place of Hospitalization of the Insured Person. 
b. The treating Medical Practitioner certifies in writing and Our panel Medical Practitioner confirms that 
the medical condition of the Insured Person is such that repatriation of the Insured Person is not 
possible and there is a need for a companion to be pr esent while the Insured Person remains 
Hospitalized.  
c. Expenses can be claimed under this Section on a Reimbursement basis only. 
d. We will reimburse two -way airfare in a licensed common carrier or two -way railway tickets for the 
travel of the companion to the place of Hospitalization of the Insured Person. 
e. We have accepted a claim under Section 3.1.1.1 (Inpatient Care) above. 
 
For the purpose of this Benefit Immediate Family means any one of the relationships with the Insured 
Person: spouse, father, mother, father-in-law, mother-in-law, brother, sister -in-law, sister, brother -in-law, 
son or daughter. 
 
3.1.1.17. Accompanying Person Accommodation Cover 
 
What is covered: 
 
If an Insured Person suffers an Injury or an Illness during the Policy Period that solely and directly results in 
the Insured Person’s Hospitalization We will pay the amount specified in the Policy Schedule/Certificate of 
Insurance for each continuous and completed 24 hours of Hospitalization in  respect of one Immediate 
Family member of the Insured Person to accompany the Insured Person in Hospital. 
 
Conditions: 
a. No adult member of the Insured Person’s Immediate Family is present within a distance of at least 150 
kilometers from the place of Hospitalization of the Insured Person. 
b. Our panel Medical Practitioner confirms that the medical condition of the Insured Person is such there 
is a need for a companion to be present while the Insured Person remains Hospitalized.  
c. We have accepted a claim under Section 3.1.1.1 (Inpatient Care) above. 
d. Our liability under this Benefit shall be in excess of the Deductible for each period of Hospitalization. 
e. Our maximum liability under this Benefit shall be the lower of 10 days or duration of Hospitalization.  

--- PAGE 17 ---

 
Health Plus   
 
Health Plus         UIN: NBHHLGP22157V032122 
 
 
Internal 
 
For the purpose of this Benefit Immediate Family means any one of the relationships with the Insured 
Person: spouse, father, mother, father -in-law, mother-in-law, brother, sister -in-law, sister, brother -in-
law, son or daughter. 
 
3.1.1.18. Health Check-up  
 
What is covered: 
 
The Insured Person may avail a health check-up during the Policy Period as per the list specified in Annexure 
IV or up to the limit specified in the Policy Schedule/ Certificate of Insurance only for Diagnostic Tests taken 
at Our Network Provider which will be arranged by Us: 
 
a. The eligibility of the Insured Person under this Benefit and the frequency of heath check-ups will be as 
specified in the Policy Schedule/Certificate of Insurance. 
b. Any unutilized test or amount in one Policy Year cannot be carry forwarded to the next Policy Year. 
 
3.1.1.19. Home Health Care Services 
 
What is covered: 
 
We will indemnify the Medical Expenses incurred on health care services taken by the Insured Person at home 
during the Policy Period through Our empanelled Service Provider. 
 
Conditions: 
 
a. We have accepted a claim under Section 3.1.1.1 (Inpatient Care) above and services under this Benefit 
are availed immediately following that Hospitalization. 
b. This Benefit can be availed on a Cashless Facility basis only. 
c. The medical condition of the Insured Person must be such that the treating Medical Practitioner 
expects the condition to improve in a reasonable and generally predictable period of time. 
d. Treatment under this Benefit will be provided under the supervision of a Medical Practitioner to safely 
and effectively administer the treatment plan for the condition of the Insured Person. 
e. The amount, frequency and time period of the services under this Benefit shall be reasonable, and in 
agreement between treating Medical Practitioner and the Insured Person availing the service. 
f. Services under this Benefit are available only through Our empanelled Service Provider s in selected 
cities. Please contact Us for the updated list of cities where Home Health Care Services are available. 
 
3.1.1.20. Sub-limit on Specified Illness/Conditions 
 
What is covered: 
 
If an Insured Person is Hospitalized during the Policy Period for any of the Specified Illnesses or Conditions 
specified in Policy Schedule/Certificate of Insurance then it is agreed that Our liability in respect of any claim 
made under the Policy will be limited to the amount specified in Policy Schedule/Certificate of Insurance. 
 
3.1.1.21. Loyalty Credits: Sum Insured Enhancement 

--- PAGE 18 ---

 
Health Plus   
 
Health Plus         UIN: NBHHLGP22157V032122 
 
 
Internal 
 
What is covered: 
 
If the Insured Person’s cover under the Policy is renewed with Us without a break We will increase the Base 
Sum Insured applicable under the Policy by the percentage as opted and specified in the Policy 
Schedule/Certificate of Insurance, for each successive renewal. The Sum Insured increase will be calculated 
as a percentage of the Base Sum Insured subject to the maximumof 100% of Base Sum Insured  as specified 
in the Policy Schedule/Certificate of Insurance. The sub -limits applicable to various Benefits will remain the 
same and shall not increase proportionately with the Sum Insured. 
 
Conditions:  
a. The Sum Insured shall be increased by a flat percentage for each successive Renewal without a break.  
b. At Renewal You/ Insured Person shall have an option to reinstate/ revise the Sum Insured by sending in 
writing the request for such Sum Insured revision. Any revision to Sum Insured shall always be subject 
to due underwriting by Us and acceptance of risk by Us in writing. 
c. If the Insured Person in the expiring cover under the Policy is covered under an Individual Cover and 
has an enhanced Sum Insured in the expiring cover under the Policy under this Benefit, and such 
expiring cover under the Policy is Renewed with Us as a Family Floater Cover, then We shall provide 
credit for Sum Insured enhancement to the Insured Person only and not to the other members of 
Family Floater Cover. 
d. If the Insured Persons in the expiring cover under the Policy are covered under a Family Floate r Cover 
and have an accumulated Loyalty Credit for each Insured Person in the expiring cover under the Policy 
under this Benefit, and such expiring cover under the Policy is Renewed with Us as an Individual Cover 
with same or higher Base Sum Insured, then the accumulated Loyalty Cover to be carried forward for 
credit in the Renewing cover under the Policy would be the accumulated Loyalty Credit for that Insured 
Person. 
e. In case the Sum Insured of Section 3.1.1.1 (In-patient Care) is reduced at the time of Renewal, the 
applicable accumulated Loyalty Credit shall also be reduced in proportion to the Sum Insured of 
Section 3.1.1.1 
f. In case the Sum Insured of Section 3.1.1.1 (In-patient Care) under the Policy is increased at the time of 
Renewal, the applicable accumulated Loyalty Credit shall be carried forward. 
 
3.1.1.22. No Claim Bonus 
 
What is covered: 
 
We will add a Cumulative Bonus in the form of a No Claim Bonus as a percentage specified in the Policy 
Schedule/Certificate of Insurance of the Sum Insured of Section 3.1.1.1 (In-patient Care) at the end of every 
Policy Year. 
 
Conditions: 
i. No claim has been made under Section 3.1.1.1 (Inpatient Care), 3.1.1.2 & 3.1.1.3 (Pre & Post 
Hospitalization Expenses), 3.1.1.4 (Day Care Treatment), 3.1.1.6 (Domiciliary treatment), 3.1.1.7 
(Organ Transplant), 3.1.1.5 (Inpatient Care under Alternate treatment) & 3.1.1.8 (Maternity 
Expenses) in the immediately preceding Policy Year. 

--- PAGE 19 ---

 
Health Plus   
 
Health Plus         UIN: NBHHLGP22157V032122 
 
 
Internal 
ii. The No Claim Bonus will be added if the Policy is Renewed with Us by the end of the Grace Period 
or at the end of each Policy Year if the Policy continues to be in force. 
iii. The No Claim Bonus will not be accumulated in excess of 100% of the Base Sum Insured under the 
current Policy with Us under any circumstances. 
iv. Any No Claim Bonus that has accrued will be available for any claims made in the subsequent Policy 
Year. 
v. Merging of Covers under the Policy: If the Insured Persons in the expiring P olicy are covered under 
multiple Individual Covers and such expiring Policy has been Renewed with Us on a Family Floater 
Cover basis then the No Claim Bonus to be carried forward for credit in such Renewed Policy shall 
be the lowest percentage of No Claim Bonus of the last Policy Year amongst all the expiring 
Individual Covers being merged. 
vi.  Splitting of Covers under the Policy : If the Insured Persons in the expiring cover under the Policy 
are covered on a Family Floater Cover basis and such Insured Persons Renew their expiring cover 
with Us by splitting the Sum Insured in to two or more Family Floater/Individual Covers then the No 
Claim Bonus shall not be carried forward to the split covers. 
vii. Reduction in Sum Insured: If the Sum Insured has been reduced at the time of Renewal, the 
applicable No Claim Bonus shall be calculated on the revised Sum Insured on a pro-rata basis. 
viii. Increase in Sum Insured: If the Sum Insured has been increased at the time of Renewal the No 
Claim Bonus shall be calculated on the Sum Insured of the last completed Policy Year. 
ix.  The No Claim Bonus is provisional and is subject to decrease by the same percentage a s specified 
in the Policy Schedule/ Certificate of Insurance if a claim is made in the expiring Policy Year. 
 
3.1.1.23. Re-fill Benefit 
 
What is covered: 
 
If the Base Sum Insured, Loyalty Credit (if any) and No Claim Bonus (if any) has been partially or completely 
exhausted due to claims made and paid or claims made and accepted as payable for a particular Illness 
during the Policy Year under Section 3.1. (Hospitalization Cover), then We will provide a Re -fill amount of 
maximum up to 100% of the Base Sum Insured which may be utilized for claims arising in that Policy Year. 
 
Conditions: 
a. The re-fill amount may be used  for only subsequent claims in respect of the Insured Person and not 
against any Illness (including its complications or follow up) for which a claim has been paid or 
accepted as payable in the current Policy Year for the same Insured Person. 
b. For Family Floater Covers, the re-fill amount will be available on a floater basis to all Insured Persons in 
that family in the Policy Year. 
c. If the re -fill amount is not utilized in whole or in part in a Policy Year, it cannot be carried forward to 
any extent in any subsequent Policy Year. 
d. The maximum liability for a single claim after applying Re -fill Benefit shall not be more than Base Sum 
Insured, Loyalty Credits and No Claim Bonus (if any) under Section 3.1.1 (in Hospitalization Cover) 
e. Once the Re-fill Benefit is opted in by an Insured Person, it cannot be withdrawn by the Insured Person 
at subsequent Renewals. 
f. Re-fill Benefit shall not be available for the Section 3.1.1.8 (Maternity Benefit) and 3.1.1.18 (Health 
Check Up)  
 

--- PAGE 20 ---

 
Health Plus   
 
Health Plus         UIN: NBHHLGP22157V032122 
 
 
Internal 
3.1.1.24. Co-payment 
 
What is covered: 
 
The Insured Person will pay the pre -determined percentage as specified in the Policy Schedule/ Certificate 
of Insurance as Co -Payment and We will  pay the remaining part of the amount that We assess as the 
admissible amount in respect of any claim under this Section or selected sections as mentioned in the Policy 
Schedule/ Certificate of Insurance made by an Insured Person. 
 
Conditions: 
 
The Co -Payment percentage will be applicable on all claims under Hospitalization Cover Section except 
3.1.1.8 (Maternity Expenses), 3.1.1.9 (New Born Baby Cover), 3.1.1.10 (New Born Vaccination), 3.1.1.11 (Pre 
& Post Natal), 3.1.1.12 (Cord Blood Banking), 3.1.1.13 (Emergency Ground Ambulance), 3.1.1.14 (Air 
Ambulance Cover), 3.1.1.15 (Prosthetic cover), 3.1.1.16 (Compassionate Visit), 3.1.1.17 (Accompanying 
person accommodation cover). 3.1.1.18 ( Health Checkup ), 3.1.1.20 ( Sum-limits for Specified 
Illness/conditions). 
 
3.1.1.25. Annual Aggregate Deductible 
 
What is covered: 
 
The Insured Person shall bear on his/her own account an amount equal to the Annual Aggregate Deductible 
specified in the Policy Schedule/ Certificate of Insurance for any and all admissible claim amounts We assess 
to be admissible in respect of all claims made by that Insured Person under Section 3.1.1(Hospitalization 
Cover) for In-patient Hospitalization claims under indemnity based options on the admissible claim amount 
during a Policy Year. 
 
Conditions: 
 Our liability to make payment under the Policy in respect of any claim made in that Policy Year will only 
commence once the Annual Aggregate Deductible has been exhausted. 
 The provisions in Section 3.1.1.24 on Co-payment (if applicable) will apply to any amou nts payable by 
Us in respect of a claim made by the Insured Person after the Annual Aggregate Deductible has been 
exhausted.  
 Deductible under the Section 3.1.1.25 (Annual Aggregate Deductible) shall not apply to any claim under 
3.1.1.8 (Maternity Expenses), 3.1.1.9 (New Born Baby Cover), 3.1.1.10 (New Born Vaccination), 3.1.1.11 
(Pre & Post Natal), 3.1.1.12 (Cord Blood Banking), 3.1.1.13 (Emergency Ground Ambulance), 3.1.1.14 
(Air Ambulance Cover), 3.1.1.15 (Prosthetic cover), 3.1.1.16 (Compassionate Visit), 3.1.1.17 
(Accompanying person accommodation cover). 3.1.1.18 (Health Checkup), 3.1.1.20 (Su b-limits for 
Specified Illness/conditions) 
 
3.1.1.26. Annual Catastrophic Claim Deductible 
 
What is covered: 
 

--- PAGE 21 ---

 
Health Plus   
 
Health Plus         UIN: NBHHLGP22157V032122 
 
 
Internal 
The Insured Person shall bear on his/her own account an amount equal to the Annual Catastrophic Claim 
Deductible specified in the Policy Schedule/ Certificate of Insurance for any admissible claim amounts We 
assess to be admissible in respect of all claims  made by that Insured Person under Section 3.1. 
(Hospitalization Cover)  for In -patient Hospitalization claims under indemnity based options on the 
admissible claim amount during Policy Year. 
 
Conditions: 
 Our liability to make payment under the Policy in respect of any claim made in that Policy Year will only 
commence once the Annual Catastrophic Claim Deductible has been exhausted. 
 The provisions in Section 3.1.1.24 on Co -payment (if applicable) will apply to any amounts payable by 
Us in respect of a claim made by the Insured Person after the Annual Catastrophic Claim Deductible has 
been exhausted.  
 Deductible under the Section 3.1.2.6 (Annual Catastrophic Claim Deductible) shall not apply to any 
claim under 3.1.1.8 (Maternity Expenses ), 3.1.1.9 (New Born Baby Cover), 3.1.1.10 (New Born 
Vaccination), 3.1.1.11 (Pre & Post Natal), 3.1.1.12 (Cord Blood Banking), 3.1.1.13 (Emergency Ground 
Ambulance), 3.1.1.14 (Air Ambulance Cover), 3.1.1.15 (Prosthetic cover), 3.1.1.16 (Compassionate Visit), 
3.1.1.17 (Accompanying person accommodation cover). 3.1.1.18 (Health Checkup), 3.1.1.20 (Sub-limits 
for Specified Illness/conditions). 
 
3.1.1.27. e-Consultation 
 
What is covered: 
 
If the Insured Person is diagnosed  with an Illness or is planning to undergo a planned Surgery or a Surgical 
Procedure during the Policy Period, the Insured Person can, at the Insured Person’s sole direction, obtain an 
e-Consultation during the Policy Period. 
 
Conditions: 
a. e-Consultation shall be requested through Our call centre or website chat. 
b. e-Consultation will be arranged by Us (without any liabilities) and will be based only on the information 
provided by the Insured Person. 
c. By seeking e -Consultation under this Benefit, the Insured Pe rson is not restrained or advised against 
visiting or consulting with any other independent Medical Practitioner or commencing or continuing 
any treatment advised by such Medical Practitioner. 
d. The Insured Person is free to choose whether or not to obtain t he e-Consultation, and if obtained then 
whether or not to act on it in whole or in part. 
e. e-Consultation under this Benefit shall not be valid for any medico-legal purposes. 
f. We do not represent correctness of the e-Consultation and shall not assume or be deemed to assume 
any liability towards any loss or damage arising out of or in relation to any opinion, advice, prescription, 
actual or alleged errors, omissions and representations made by the Medical Practitioner. 
 
3.1.1.28. Inclusion of Cyberknife/ Robotic Surgery 
 
What is covered: 
 

--- PAGE 22 ---

 
Health Plus   
 
Health Plus         UIN: NBHHLGP22157V032122 
 
 
Internal 
If the Insured Person is undergoingSurgery for the removal and/or treatment of a malignant tumor through 
cyber knife or robotic Surgery, the Insured Person will bear a 50% Co-Payment and We will indemnify the 
remaining part of the amount that We assess as admissible in respect of a claim under Section 3.1.1.1 
(Inpatient Care). 
 
 
What is not covered: 
a.  All tumors which are histologically described as carcinoma in situ, benign, pre -malignant, borderline 
malignant, low malignant potential, neoplasm of unknown behavior, or non -invasive, including but not 
limited to: Carcinoma in situ of breasts, Cervical dysplasia CIN-1, CIN - 2 and CIN-3. 
b. Any non-melanoma skin carcinoma unless there is evidence of metastases to lymph nodes or beyond. 
c. Malignant melanoma that has not caused invasion beyond the epidermis. 
d. All tumors of the prostate unless histologically class ified as having a Gleason score greater than 6 or 
having progressed to at least clinical TNM classification T2N0M0. 
e. All Thyroid cancers histologically classified as T1N0M0 (TNM Classification) or below. 
f. Chronic lymphocytic leukaemia less than RAI stage 3. 
g. Non-invasive papillary cancer of the bladder histologically described as TaN0M0 or of a lesser 
classification. 
h. All Gastro-Intestinal Stromal Tumors histologically classified as T1N0M0 (TNM Classification) or below 
and with mitotic count of less than or equal to 5/50 HPFs. 
i. All tumors in the presence of HIV infection. 
 
3.1.1.29. Corporate Floater for any Illness/Accident 
 
We will provide a Corporate Floater as specified in the Policy Schedule/Certificate of Insurance during the 
Policy Year, provided that: 
 
i. This Benefit  will be available for those Insured Persons who have already exhausted their Sum 
Insured limit subject to per Insured Person/ family limit as mentioned in the Policy 
Schedule/Certificate of Insurance. 
ii. This Benefit will be restricted to Individual/ family  to the  amount specified in the Policy 
Schedule/Certificate of Insurance in respect of each and every Insured Person/ family, as opted. 
iii. If the cover under the Policy is issued on a Family Floater Cover basis, the enhanced Sum Insured on 
account of the Corporate Floater applicable will also be available on a Family Floater Cover basis. 
iv. Any Benefit accrued under this cover cannot be carried forward to the subsequent Policy Year. 
v. The Benefit payable will be over and above the Base Sum Insured. 
vi. All other terms, exclusions and conditions contained in the Policy or endorsed thereon remain 
unchanged. 
 
3.1.1.30. Corporate Floater for 11 listed Critical Illnesses  
 
We will provide a Corporate Floater as specified in the Policy Schedule/ Certificate of Insurance during the 
Policy Year only for medical treatment for Critical Illnesses listed below provided that: 
 

--- PAGE 23 ---

 
Health Plus   
 
Health Plus         UIN: NBHHLGP22157V032122 
 
 
Internal 
i. This Benefit will be available for those Insured Persons who ha ve already exhausted their Sum Insured 
limit subject to per Insured Person/ family limit as mentioned in the Policy Schedule /Certificate of 
Insurance. 
ii. This Benefit will be restricted to Individual/ family  to the  amount specified in the Policy 
Schedule/Certificate of Insurance in respect of each and every Insured Person/ family, as opted. 
iii. If the cover under the Policy is issued on a Family Floater Cover basis, the enhanced Sum Insured on 
account of the Corporate Floater applicable will also be available on a Family Floater Cover basis. 
iv. Any Benefit accrued under this cover cannot be carried forward to the subsequent Policy Year. 
v. The Benefit payable will be over and above the Base Sum Insured. 
vi. All other terms, exclusions and conditions contained in the Policy or endorsed thereon remain 
unchanged. 
 
List of 11 Critical Illnesses under Section 3.1.1.30 (Corporate Floater for 11 listed Critical Illnesses) 
 
1. Cancer of Specified Severity 
I. A malignant tumor  characterized by the uncontrolled growth and spread of malignant cells with 
invasion and destruction of normal tissues. This diagnosis must be supported by histological 
evidence of malignancy. The term cancer includes leukemia, lymphoma and sarcoma. 
 
II. The following are excluded – 
i. All tumors which are histologically described as carcinoma in situ, benign, pre -malignant, 
borderline malignant, low malignant potential, neoplasm of unknown behaviour, or non -
invasive, including but not limited to: Carcinoma in situ of breasts, Cervical dysplasia CIN-1, CIN 
-2 and CIN-3. 
ii. Any non-melanoma skin carcinoma unless there is evidence of metastases to lymph nodes or 
beyond; 
iii. Malignant melanoma that has not caused invasion beyond the epidermis; 
iv. All tumors of the prostate unless histologically classified as having a Gleason score greater than 
6 or having progressed to at least clinical TNM classification T2N0M0 
v. All Thyroid cancers histologically classified as T1N0M0 (TNM Classification) or below; 
vi. Chronic lymphocytic leukaemia less than RAI stage 3 
vii. Non-invasive papillary cancer of the bladder histologically described as TaN0M0 or of a lesser 
classification, 
viii. All Gastro-Intestinal Stromal Tumors histologically classified as T1N0M0 (TNM Classification) or 
below and with mitotic count of less than or equal to 5/50 HPFs; 
ix. All tumors in the presence of HIV infection. 
 
2. Myocardial Infarction - (First Heart Attack of specific severity) 
I. The first occurrence of heart attack or myocardial infarction, which means the death of a portion of 
the heart muscle as a result of inadequate blood supply to the relevant area. The diagnosis for 
Myocardial Infarction should be evidenced by all of the following criteria: 
i. A history of typical clinical symptoms consistent with the diagnosis  of acute myocardial 
infarction (For e.g. typical chest pain) 
ii. New characteristic electrocardiogram changes 
iii. Elevation of infarction specific enzymes, Troponins or other specific biochemical markers. 
II. The following are excluded: 

--- PAGE 24 ---

 
Health Plus   
 
Health Plus         UIN: NBHHLGP22157V032122 
 
 
Internal 
i. Other acute Coronary Syndromes 
ii. Any type of angina pectoris 
iii. A rise in cardiac biomarkers or Troponin T or I in absence of overt ischemic heart disease OR 
following an intra-arterial cardiac procedure. 
 
3. Open Chest CABG 
I. The actual undergoing of heart surgery to correct blockage or narrowing in one or more coronary 
artery(s), by coronary artery bypass grafting done via a sternotomy (cutting through the breast 
bone) or minimally invasive keyhole coronary artery bypass proce dures. The diagnosis must be 
supported by a coronary angiography and the realization of surgery has to be confirmed by a 
cardiologist. 
II. The following are excluded: 
i. Angioplasty and/or any other intra-arterial procedures 
 
4. Open Heart Replacement or Repair of Heart Valves 
I. The actual undergoing of open-heart valve surgery is to replace or repair one or more heart valves, 
as a consequence of defects in, abnormalities of, or disease affected cardiac valve(s). The diagnosis 
of the valve abnormality must be suppor ted by an echocardiography and the realization of surgery 
has to be confirmed by a specialist Medical Practitioner. Catheter based techniques including but 
not limited to, balloon valvotomy/valvuloplasty are excluded. 
 
5. Coma of Specified Severity 
I. A state of unconsciousness with no reaction or response to external stimuli or internal needs. This 
diagnosis must be supported by evidence of all of the following: 
i. no response to external stimuli continuously for at least 96 hours; 
ii. life support measures are necessary to sustain life; and 
iii. Permanent neurological deficit which must be assessed at least 30 days after the onset of 
the coma. 
II. The condition has to be confirmed by a specialist Medical Practitioner. Coma resulting directly from 
alcohol or drug abuse is excluded 
 
6. Kidney Failure requiring Regular Dialysis 
I. End stage renal disease presenting as chronic irreversible failure of both kidneys to function, as a 
result of which either regular renal dialysis (haemodialysis or peritoneal dialysis) is instituted or 
renal t ransplantation is carried out. Diagnosis has to be confirmed by a specialist Medical 
Practitioner 
 
7. Stroke resulting in Permanent Symptoms 
I. Any cerebrovascular incident producing permanent neurological sequelae. This includes infarction 
of brain tissue, thro mbosis in an intracranial vessel, haemorrhage and embolisation from an 
extracranial source. Diagnosis has to be confirmed by a specialist Medical Practitioner and 
evidenced by typical clinical symptoms as well as typical findings in CT Scan or MRI of the b rain. 
Evidence of permanent neurological deficit lasting for at least 3 months has to be produced. 
II. The following are excluded: 
i. Transient ischemic attacks (TIA) 
ii. Traumatic injury of the brain 

--- PAGE 25 ---

 
Health Plus   
 
Health Plus         UIN: NBHHLGP22157V032122 
 
 
Internal 
iii. Vascular disease affecting only the eye or optic nerve or vestibular functions. 
 
8. Major Organ /Bone Marrow Transplant 
I. The actual undergoing of a transplant of: 
i. One of the following human organs: heart, lung, liver, kidney, pancreas, that resulted from 
irreversible end-stage failure of the relevant organ, or  
ii. Human bone marrow using haematopoietic stem cells. The undergoing of a transplant has to be 
confirmed by a specialist Medical Practitioner. 
 
II. The following are excluded: 
i. Other stem-cell transplants 
ii. Where only islets of langerhans are transplanted 
 
9. Permanent Paralysis of Limbs 
I. Total and irreversible loss of use of two or more limbs as a result of injury or disease of the brain or 
spinal cord. A specialist Medical Practitioner must be of the opinion th at the paralysis will be 
permanent with no hope of recovery and must be present for more than 3 months. 
 
10. Motor Neuron Disease with Permanent Symptoms 
I. Motor neuron disease diagnosed by a specialist Medical Practitioner as spinal muscular atrophy, 
progressive bulbar palsy, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis or primary lateral sclerosis. There must be 
progressive degeneration of corticospinal tracts and anterior horn cells or bulbar efferent neurons. 
There must be current significant and permanent functional neurological impairment with objective 
evidence of motor dysfunction that has persisted for a continuous period of at least 3 months. 
 
11. Multiple Sclerosis with Persisting Symptoms 
I. The unequivocal diagnosis of Definite Multiple Sclerosis confirmed and evidenced by  all of the 
following: 
i. investigations including typical MRI findings which unequivocally confirm the diagnosis to be 
multiple sclerosis and 
ii. there must be current clinical impairment of motor or sensory function, which must have 
persisted for a continuous period of at least 6 months. 
II. Other causes of neurological damage such as SLE and HIV are excluded. 
 
3.1.1.31. Claim Settlement in Network Provider only (Cashless)  
 
The provisions of this Section shall be applicable if there is only Cashless Facility claim settlement option  
available under Section 3.1. (Hospitalization Cover) 
(a) If an Insured Person is Hospitalized i n a Hospital as specified by Us and attached to the Policy  
Schedule/Certificate of Insurance as specific endorsement then it is agreed that We will pay 100% of 
any amount We assess for payment.  
(b) Any treatment taken at a Non-Network Provider shall not be covered under this Policy. 
3.1.1.32. Claim Settlement on Reimbursement Only 
 

--- PAGE 26 ---

 
Health Plus   
 
Health Plus         UIN: NBHHLGP22157V032122 
 
 
Internal 
The provisions of this Section shall be applicable if there is only Reimbursement Claim settlement option  
under Section 3.1. (Hospitalization Cover) 
(a) If an Insured Person is Hospit alized then it is agreed that We will pay the amount that We assess in 
respect of any claim under the Policy on reimbursement basis only. 
 
3.1.1.33. Modern Treatments  
 
What is covered:  
The following procedures / treatments will be covered either as Inpatient Care or as  part of Day Care 
Treatment as per Section 3.1.1.1 and Section 3.1.1.4 respectively, in a Hospital: 
i. Uterine Artery Embolization and HIFU (High intensity focused ultrasound) 
ii. Balloon Sinuplasty 
iii. Deep Brain stimulation  
iv. Oral chemotherapy 
v. Immunotherapy- Monoclonal Antibody to be given as injection 
vi. Intra vitreal injections 
vii. Robotic surgeries 
viii. Stereotactic radio surgeries 
ix. BronchicalThermoplasty 
x. Vaporisation of the prostrate (Green laser treatment or holmium laser treatment) 
xi. IONM - (Intra Operative Neuro Monitoring)  
xii. Stem cell therapy: Hematopoietic stem cells for bone marrow transplant for haematological conditions 
to be covered. 
a. If We  have accepted a claim under this benefit, We will also indemnify the Insured Person’s Pre -
hospitalization Medical Expenses and Post -hospitalization Medical Expenses in accordance with 
Sections 3.1.1.2 and 3.1.1.3 within the overall benefit sub-limit. 
 
Special condition applicable for robotic surgeries: 
A limit of maximum INR 1 Lac will apply to all robotic surgeries, except the following:  
a. Robotic total radical prostatectomy 
b. Robotic cardiac surgeries 
c. Robotic partial nephrectomy 
d. Robotic surgeries for malignancies 
 
3.1.1.34. Restriction on Treatment taken in Specified Provider Network 
The provisions of this Section shall be applicable only if there is restriction on treatment in Specified 
Provider Network. 
(a) If an Insured Person is Hospitalized  in a Hospital as specified by Us  and attached to the Policy  
Schedule/Certificate of Insurance as specific endorsement then it is agreed that the We will pay 100% 
of any amount We assess for payment.  
(b) If an Insured Person is Hospitalized in a Hospital not specified by Us then it is agreed that We will only 
pay the percentage as specified on the Policy Schedule /Certificate of Insurance, of any amount We 
assess for Reimbursement in respect of any claim un der the Policy made by that Insured Person and 
the balance will be borne by the Insured Person. 
 
3.1.1.35. Section Specific Conditions 
All the Waiting Periods as specified in Policy Schedule/ Certificate of Insurance shall be applicable 
individually for each Insured Person and claims shall be assessed accordingly. On Renewal, if an enhanced 
Sum Insured is applied for, the Waiting Periods would apply afresh to the extent of the increase in Sum 

--- PAGE 27 ---

 
Health Plus   
 
Health Plus         UIN: NBHHLGP22157V032122 
 
 
Internal 
Insured only. Waiting Periods mentioned below shall not apply to claims under Section 3.1.1.18 (Health 
Checkup) and Section 3.1.1.8 (Maternity Benefit). 
 
We shall not be liable to make any payment under this Policy directly or indirectly for, caused by, based on, 
arising out of or howsoever attributable to any of the following, except if any Insured Person suffers an 
Accident; 
 
A. Waiting Periods 
 
(i) Pre-existing Diseases (Code–Excl01):  
a. Expenses related to the treatment of a Pre-existing Disease (PED) and its direct 
complications shall be excluded until the expiry of the number of months (as mentioned in 
Policy Schedule/Certificate of Insurance) of continuous coverage after the date of inception 
of the first Policy with Us. 
b. In case of enhancement of Sum Insured the exclusion shall apply afresh to the extent of Sum 
Insured increase. 
c. If the Insured Person is continuously covered without any break as defined under the 
portability norms of the extant IRDAI (Health Insurance) regulations, then waiting period for 
the same would be reduced to the extent of prior coverage. 
d. Coverage under the Policy after the expiry of number of months (as mentioned in Policy 
Schedule/Certificate of Insurance) for any Pre-existing Disease is subject to the same being 
declared at the time of application and accepted by Us. 
 
(ii) Specified disease/procedure waiting period (Code- Excl02) 
a. Expenses related to the treatment of the listed conditions, surgeries/treatments shall be 
excluded until the expiry of number of months (as mentioned in Policy Schedule/Certificate 
of Insurance) of continuous coverage after the date of inception of the first Policy with us. 
This exclusion shall not be applicable for claims arising due to an Accident (covered from day 
1) or Cancer (covered after 30-day waiting period). 
b. In case of enhancement of Sum Insured the exclusion shall apply afresh to the extent of Sum 
Insured increase. 
c. If any of the specified disease/procedure falls under the waiting period specified for pre-
Existing diseases, then the longer of the two waiting periods shall apply. 
d. The waiting period for listed conditions shall apply even if contracted after the Policy or 
declared and accepted without a specific exclusion. 
e. If the Insured Person is continuously covered without any break as defined under the 
applicable norms on portability stipulated by IRDAI then waiting period for the same would 
be reduced to the extent of prior coverage. 
f. List of specific diseases/procedures unless specifically mentioned in Policy 
Schedule/Certificate of Insurance: 
a. Pancreatitis and stones in biliary and urinary system. 
b. Cataract, Glaucoma and other disorders of lens and disorders of retina. 
c. Hyperplasia of prostate, hydrocele and spermatocele. 
d. Abnormal utero -vaginal bleeding, female genital prolapse, 
endometriosis/adenomyosis, fibroids, PCOD, or any condition requir ing dilation 
and curettage or hysterectomy. 
e. Hemorrhoids, fissure or fistula or abscess of anal and rectal region. 

--- PAGE 28 ---

 
Health Plus   
 
Health Plus         UIN: NBHHLGP22157V032122 
 
 
Internal 
f. Hernia of all sites. 
g. Osteoarthritis, Systemic Connective Tissue disorders, Dorsopathies, 
Spondylopathies, inflammatory Polyarthropathies, Arthrosis such as RA, Gout, 
Intervertebral Disc disorders. 
h. Chronic kidney disease and failure. 
i. Varicose veins of lower extremities. 
j. Disease of middle ear and mastoid including Otitis Media, Cholesteatoma, 
Perforation of Tympanic Membrane. 
k. All internal or e xternal benign or in situ neoplasms/tumours, cyst, sinus, polyp, 
nodules, swelling, mass or lump. 
l. Ulcer, erosion and varices of upper gastro intestinal tract. 
m. Tonsils and adenoids, nasal septum and nasal sinuses. 
n. Internal Congenital Anomaly  
 
If these diseases are Pre-Existing Diseases at the time of the Proposal or subsequently found to be Pre -
Existing Diseases, the Pre -Existing Disease Waiting Periods as mentioned in the Policy Schedule/ 
Certificate of Insurance shall apply in respect of that Insured Person. 
 
(iii) 30 day waiting period (Code- Excl03):  
 
a. Expenses related to the treatment of any Illness within 30 days from the first Policy 
commencement date shall be excluded except claims arising due to an Accident, provided the 
same are covered. 
b. This exclusion shall not, however, apply if the Insured Person has continuous coverage for 
more than twelve months 
c. The within referred waiting period is made applicable to the enhanced Sum Insured in the 
event of granting higher Sum Insured subsequently. 
B. Permanent Exclusions: 
 
A permanent exclusion will be applied on any medical or physical condition or treatment of an Insured 
Person, if specifically mentioned in the Policy Schedule and has been accepted by You. This option as per 
company’s underwriting policy, will be used for such condition(s) or treatment(s) that otherwise would have 
resulted in rejection of insurance coverage under this Policy to such Insured Person. 
 
We shall not be liable to make any payment under this Policy directly or indirectly caused b y, based on, 
arising out of or howsoever attributable to any of the following unless specifically mentioned elsewhere in 
the Policy.  
 
I. Investigation & Evaluation (Code-Excl04) 
a. Expenses related to any admission primarily for diagnostics and evaluation purposes only are 
excluded. 
b. Any diagnostic expenses which are not related or not incidental to the current diagnosis and 
treatment are excluded.  
 
II. Rest Cure, rehabilitation and respite care (Code-Excl05) 
Expenses related to any admission primarily for enforced bed rest and not for receiving treatment. 
This also includes: 

--- PAGE 29 ---

 
Health Plus   
 
Health Plus         UIN: NBHHLGP22157V032122 
 
 
Internal 
a. Custodial care either at home or in a nursing facility for personal care such as help with 
activities of daily living such as bathing, dressing, moving around either by skilled nurses or 
assistant or non-skilled persons.  
b. Any services for people who are te rminally ill to address physical, social, emotional and 
spiritual needs. 
 
III. Obesity/ Weight Control (Code-Excl06) 
Expenses related to the surgical treatment of obesity that does not fulfil all the below conditions: 
a. Surgery to be conducted is upon the advice of the Doctor. 
b. The surgery/Procedure conducted should be supported by clinical protocols. 
c. The member has to be 18 years of age or older and; 
d. Body Mass Index (BMI); 
I. greater than or equal to 40 or 
II. greater than or equal to 35 in conjunction with any of the fo llowing severe co -
morbidities following failure of less invasive methods of weight loss: 
i. Obesity-related cardiomyopathy 
ii. Coronary heart disease  
iii. Severe Sleep Apnea 
iv. Uncontrolled Type2 Diabetes 
 
IV. Change-of-Gender treatments (Code-Excl07) 
Expenses related to any treatment, including surgical management, to change characteristics of the 
body to those of the opposite sex. 
 
V. Cosmetic or plastic Surgery (Code-Excl08) 
Expenses for cosmetic or plastic surgery or any treatment to change appearance unless for 
reconstruction following an Accident, Burn(s) or Cancer or as part of medically necessary treatment 
to remove a direct and immediate health risk to the insured. For t his to be considered a medical 
necessity, it must be certified by the attending Medical Practitioner. 
 
VI. Excluded Providers (Code-Excl11) 
Expenses incurred towards treatment in any Hospital or by any Medical Practitioner or any other 
provider specifically excluded by Us and disclosed in Our website / notified to the Policyholders are 
not admissible. However, in case of life threatening situations or following an Accident, expenses 
up to the stage of stabilization are payable but not the complete claim. The co mplete list of 
excluded providers can be referred to on our website.  
 
VII. Treatment for, alcoholism, drug or substance abuse or any addictive condition and consequences 
thereof. (Code-Excl12) 
 
VIII. Treatments received in heath hydros, nature cure clinics, spas or similar establishments or private 
beds registered as a nursing home attached to such establishments or where admission is arranged 
wholly or partly for domestic reasons. (Code-Excl13) 
 
IX. Refractive Error (Code-Excl15) 
Expenses related to the treatment for correction of eye sight due to refractive error less than 7.5 
dioptres. 
 
X. Unproven Treatments (Code-Excl16) 
Expenses related to any unproven treatment, services and supplies for or in connection with any 
treatment. Unproven treatments are treatments, procedures or supplies that lack significant 
medical documentation to support their effectiveness. 

--- PAGE 30 ---

 
Health Plus   
 
Health Plus         UIN: NBHHLGP22157V032122 
 
 
Internal 
 
XI. Sterility and Infertility (Code-Excl17) 
Expenses related to sterility and infertility. This includes: 
a. Any type of contraception, sterilization 
b. Assisted Reproduction services including artificial insemination and advanced reproductive 
technologies such as IVF, ZIFT, GIFT, ICSI 
c. Gestational Surrogacy 
d. Reversal of sterilization 
 
XII. Maternity (Code-Excl18) 
a. Medical treatment expenses traceable to childbirth (including complicated deliveries and 
caesarean sections incurred during hospitalization) except ectopic pregnancy;  
b. Expenses towards miscarriage (unless due to an accident) and lawful medical termination 
of pregnancy during the policy period. 
 
XIII. Circumcision 
Circumcision unless necessary for the treatment of a disease or necessitated by an Accident. 
 
XIV. External Congenital Anomaly:  
Screening, counseling or treatment related to external Congenital Anomaly. 
 
XV. Dental/oral treatment:  
Treatment, procedures and preventive, diagnostic, restorative, cosmetic services related to 
disease, disorder and conditions related to natural teeth and gingiva except if required by an 
Insured Person while Hospitalized due to an Accident. 
 
XVI. Multifocal Lens and ambulatory devices such as walkers, crutches, splints, stockings of any kind and 
also any medical equipment which is subsequently used at home. 
 
XVII. Sexually transmitted Infections & diseases (other than HIV / AIDS):  
Screening, prevention and treatment for sexually related infection or disease (other than HIV / 
AIDS). 
 
XVIII. Sleep disorders:  
Treatment for any conditions related to disturbance of normal sleep patterns or behaviors. 
  
XIX. Artificial life maintenance:  Artificial life maintenance, including life support machine used to 
sustain a person, who has been declared brain dead, as demonstrated by:  
a. Deep coma and unresponsiveness to all forms of stimulation; or 
b. Absent pupillary light reaction; or 
c. Absent oculovestibular and corneal reflexes; or  
d. Complete apnea. 
 
XX. Any form of Alternate Treatment:  
a. Ayurvedic, Homeopathic, Unani, Yoga and Siddha streams of treatment; 
b. Hydrotherapy, Acupuncture, Reflexology, Chiropractic Treatment or any other form of 
indigenous system of medicine. 
 
XXI. Unrecognized Physician or Hospital: 

--- PAGE 31 ---

 
Health Plus   
 
Health Plus         UIN: NBHHLGP22157V032122 
 
 
Internal 
a. Treatment or Medical Advice provided by a Medical Practitioner not recognized by the Medical 
Council of India or by Central Council of Indian Medicine or by Central Council of Homeopath y 
or by relevant authorities in the area where the treatment is taken.  
b. Treatment or Medical Advice related to one system of medicine provided by a Medical 
Practitioner of another system of medicine. 
c. Treatment provided by anyone with the same residen ce as an Insured Person or who is a 
member of the Insured Person’s immediate family or relatives. 
d. Treatment provided by Hospital or health facility that is not recognized by the relevant 
authorities in India or any other country where treatment takes place. 
e.  
 
XXII. Off- label Drug or Treatment:  
Use of pharmaceutical drugs for an unapproved indication or in an unapproved age group, dosage, 
or route of administration as regulated and approved by Central Drugs Standard Control 
Organization (CDSCO) 
 
XXIII. Drugs and Dressings for OPD Treatment or  Take-home Use: Any drugs or surgical dressings that 
are provided or prescribed in the case of OPD Treatment, or for an Insured Person to take home on 
leaving Hospital, for any condition, except as included in Post -hospitalization Medical Expenses 
under Section 3.1.1.3. 
 
XXIV. OPD Treatment: 
Any OPD Treatment is not covered. 
 
 
 
3.1.1.36. Claims Process & Requirements: 
The fulfillment of the terms and conditions of this Policy (including payment of full premium in advance by 
the due dates mentioned in the Policy Schedule/Certificate of Insurance) in so far as they relate to 
anything to be done or complied with by any Ins ured Person, including complying with the following in 
relation to claims, shall be Condition Precedent to admission of Our liability under this Policy. 
 
Claims Administration: 
On the occurrence or discovery of any Illness or Injury that may give rise to a claim under this 
Section, the Claims Procedure set out below shall be followed: 
a. The directions, advice and guidance of the treating Medical Practitioner shall be strictly 
followed. We shall not be obliged to make any payment that arises out of willful failure to 
comply with such directions, advice or guidance. 
b. We or Our representatives must be permitted to inspect the medical and Hospitalization 
records pertaining to the Insured  Person’s treatment and to investigate the circumstances 
pertaining to the claim. 
c. We and Our representatives must be given all reasonable co-operation in investigating the claim 
in order to assess Our liability and quantum in respect of the claim. 
 
It is h ereby agreed and understood that no change in the Medical Record provided under the Medical Advice 
information, by the Hospital or the Insured Person to Us or OurService Provider during the period of 

--- PAGE 32 ---

 
Health Plus   
 
Health Plus         UIN: NBHHLGP22157V032122 
 
 
Internal 
Hospitalization or after discharge by any means of request will be accepted by Us. Any decision on request for 
acceptance of change will be at Our discretion. 
 
Claims Procedure: 
On the occurrence or the discovery of any Illness or Injury that may give rise  to a claim under this 
Policy, then as a Condition Precedent to Our liability under the Policy the following procedure shall 
be complied with: 
 
A. For Availing Cashless Facility: Cashless Facility can be availed only at Our Network Providers or 
Service Providers. The complete list of Network Providers is available on Our website and at Our 
branches and can also be obtained by contacting Us over the telephone. In order to avail 
Cashless Facility, the following process must be followed: 
 
a. Process for Obtaining Pre-Authorization  
 
i. For Planned Treatment:  
We must be contacted to pre -authorize Cashless Facility for planned treatment at least 
72 hours prior to the proposed treatment.  Once the request for pre -authorisation has 
been granted, t he treatment must take place within 15 days of the pre -authorization 
date at a Network Provider. 
ii. In Emergencies 
If the Insured Person has been Hospitalized in an Emergency, We must be contacted to 
pre-authorize Cashless Facility within 48 hours of the Insured  Person’s Hospitalization or 
before discharge from the Hospital, whichever is earlier. 
iii. Pre-authorization through digital platform: 
Pre-authorization in respect to Health Checkup,  Second Medical Opinion, OPD  
Consultation (on Cashless Facility) can also be requested through Our mobile application 
or website. 
 
All final authorization requests, if required, shall be sent at least six hours prior to the Insured 
Person’s discharge from the Hospital. 
 
Each request for pre -authorization except for Health Checkup  and e-Consultation must be 
accompanied with completely filled and duly signed pre -authorization form including all of the 
following details: 
I. The health card (if applicable) We have issued to the Insured Person at the time of inception 
of the cover under the Policy (if available) supported with KYC document; 
II. The Policy Number; 
III. Name of the Policyholder; 
IV. Name and address of Insured Person in respect of whom the request is being made; 
V. Nature of the Illness/Injury and the treatment/Surgery required; 
VI. Name and address of the attending Medical Practitioner; 
VII. Hospital where treatment/Surgery is proposed to be taken; 
VIII. Date of admission; 
IX. First and any subsequent consultation paper/Medical Record since beginning of diagnosis of 
that treatment/Surgery; 

--- PAGE 33 ---

 
Health Plus   
 
Health Plus         UIN: NBHHLGP22157V032122 
 
 
Internal 
X. Admission note; 
XI. Treating Medical Practitioner certificate for disease/event history with justification of 
Hospitalization. 
 
If these details are not provided in full or are insufficient for Us to consider the request, We will 
request additional information or documentation in respect of that request. 
 
When We have obtained sufficient details to assess the request, We will issue the authorization 
letter specifying the sanctioned amount, any specific limitation on the claim, appl icable 
Deductibles/Co-payment and non -payable items, if applicable, or reject the request for pre -
authorisation specifying reasons for the rejection. 
 
In case of pre -authorization request where chronicity of condition is not established as per 
clinical evidence based information, We may reject the request for pre -authorization and ask 
the claimant to claim as Reimbursement. Claim documents submission for Reimbursement 
should not be considered as an admission of liability. 
 
Once the request for pre-authorisation has been granted, the treatment must take place within 
15 days of the pre -authorization date and pre-authorization shall be valid only if all the details 
of the authorized treatment, including dates, Hospital, locations, indications and disease details, 
match with the details of the actual treatment received. For Cashless Facility Hospitalization, 
We will make the payment of the amount assessed to be due, directly to the Network Provider. 
 
We reserve the right to modify, add or restrict any Network Provider or Service Provider for 
Cashless Facility in Our sole discretion. Before availing Cashless Facility, please check the 
applicable updated list of providers. 
 
B. Re-Authorization: 
Cashless Facility will be provided subject to re -authorization if requested for either change in 
the line of treatment or in the diagnosis or for any procedure carried out on the incidental 
diagnosis/finding prior to the discharge from the Hospital. 
 
C. For Reimbursement Claims: 
For all claims for which Cashless Facility have not been pre -authorized or for which treatment 
has not been taken at a Network Provider, We shall be informed of the claim along with the 
following details within 48 hours of admission to the Hospital  or before discharge from the 
Hospital, whichever is earlier: 
i. The Policy Number; 
ii. Name of the Policyholder; 
iii. Name and address of the Insured Person in respect of whom the request is being made; 
iv. Nature of Illness or Injury and the treatment/Surgery taken; 
v. Name and address of the attending Medical Practitioner;  
vi. Hospital where treatment/Surgery was taken; 
vii. Date of admission and date of discharge; 
viii. Any other information that may be relevant to the Illness/ Injury/ Hospitalization. 
 

--- PAGE 34 ---

 
Health Plus   
 
Health Plus         UIN: NBHHLGP22157V032122 
 
 
Internal 
Claims Documentation: 
We shall be provided with the following necessary information and documentation in respect of all 
claims at Your/Insured Person’s expense within 30 days of the Insured Person’s discharge from 
Hospital (in the case of Pre -hospitalization Medical Expenses and Hospitalization Medical Expenses) 
or within 30 days of the completion of the Post-hospitalization Medical Expenses period (in the case 
of Post-hospitalization Medical Expenses). 
For claims for which the use of Cashless Facility has been authorised, We will be provided these 
documents by the Network Provider immediately following the Insured Person’s discharge from 
Hospital: 
 
a. Claim form duly completed and signed by the claimant. 
Please provide mandatorily following information, if applicable 
i. Current diagnosis and date of diagnosis; 
ii. Past history and first consultation details; 
iii. Previous admission/Surgery if any. 
b. Age/identity proof document of the Insured Person in case of Cashless Facility claim (not 
required if submitted at the time of pre-authorization request) and in Reimbursement claim. 
i. Self-attested copy of valid Age proof (passport/driving license/PAN card/class X certificate/ 
birth certificate); 
ii. Self-attested copy of identity proof (passport/driving license/PAN card/voter identity 
card); 
iii. Recent passport size photograph. 
c. Cancelled cheque/bank statement/copy of passbook mentioning account holder’s name, IFSC 
code and account number printed on it of the Insured Person/Nominee (in case of death of the 
Insured Person). 
d. Original Hospital discharge summary. 
e. Additional documents required in case of Surgery/Surgical Procedure. 
i. Bar code sticker and invoice for implants and prosthesis (if used); 
f. Original final bill from Hospital with detailed break-up and paid receipt. 
g. Room tariff of the entitled room c ategory (in case of a Non-Network Provider and if room tariff 
is not a part of Hospital bill): duly signed and stamped by the Hospital in which treatment is 
taken. 
(In case the Insured Person /claimant are unable to submit such document, then We shall 
consider the Reasonable and Customary Charges of the Insured Person’s eligible room category 
of the Our Network Provider within the same geographical area for identical or similar services.)  
h. Original bills of pharmacy/medicines purchased, or of any other inves tigation done outside 
Hospital with reports and requisite prescriptions. 
i. Copy of death certificate (in case of demise of the Insured Person). 
j. For Medico-legal cases (MLC) or in case of Accident 
i. MLC/First Information Report (FIR) copy attested by the concerned Hospital/police station (if 
applicable); 
ii. Original self-narration of incident in absence of MLC/FIR. 
k. Original laboratory investigation, diagnostic and pathological reports with supporting 
prescriptions. 
l. Original X-Ray/MRI/ultrasound films and other radiological investigations. 

--- PAGE 35 ---

 
Health Plus   
 
Health Plus         UIN: NBHHLGP22157V032122 
 
 
Internal 
m. Certificate of disability issued by a Medical Board duly constituted by the Central and/or the 
State Government, if available (only in case of prosthetic cover) 
n. The retail invoice of the prosthetic with the packaging (only in case of prosthetic cover) 
 
Claims Assessment: 
a. All admissible claims under this Section shall be assessed by Us in the following progressive order:- 
i. If a room has been opted in a Hospital for which the room category is higher than the eligible limit 
as applicable for that Insured Person as specified in the Policy Schedule/Certificate of Insurance, 
then the Associated Medical Expenses payable shall be pro -rated as per the applicable limits 
specified in the Policy Schedule/Certificate of Insurance. 
ii. The Deductible (if applicable) shall be applied to the aggregate of all claims that are either paid or 
payable under this Section. Our liability to make payment shall commence only once the 
aggregate amount of all eligible claims as per Policy terms and conditions exceeds the Deductible 
limit within the same Policy Year.  
iii. Co-payment (if applicable) as specified in the Policy Schedule/Certificate of Insurance shall be 
applicable on the amount payable by Us. 
b. The claim amount assessed as mentioned above would be deducted from the amount mentioned 
against each Benefit and Sum Insured as specified in the Policy Schedule /Certificate of Insurance. The 
re-fill amount will be applied only once the Base Sum Insured is exhausted in the Policy Year. 
 
3.2. Fixed Benefit Coverage for Named Illnesses 
If an Insured Person suffers a Named Illness specified in Policy Schedule/Certificate of Insurance  
during the Policy Period , We will pay the Named Illness Sum Insured  specified in the Policy 
Schedule/Certificate of Insurance. 
 
Conditions: 
a. The Named Illness occurs or first manifests itself during the Policy Period; and  
b. The signs or symptoms of the Named Illness commence after the completion of the specified 
Pre-existing Disease and initial waiting period from the date of commenc ement of coverage of 
the Insured Person under the Policy as specified in the Policy Schedule/Certificate of Insurance. 
c. Our maximum, total and cumulative liability in respect of the Insured Person under this Benefit 
shall be limited to the Named Illness Sum Insured. 
d. We will pay the Benefit under this Section only once per Insured Person for each Named Illness 
during Policy Year. 
e. Claim for a Surgical Procedure would be paid only once per Insured Person in his lifetime. 
 
3.2.1. Section Specific Condition 
All the Waiting Periods as specified in Policy Schedule/ Certificate of Insurance shall be applicable 
individually for each Insured Person and claims shall be assessed accordingly. On Renewal, if an enhanced 
Sum Insured is applied for, the Waiting Periods would apply afresh to the extent of the increase in Sum 
Insured only. 
 
We shall not be liable to make any payment under this Policy directly or indirectly for, caused by, based on, 
arising out of or howsoever attributable to any of the following, except if any Insured Person suffers an 
Accident; 
A. Waiting Periods 
 

--- PAGE 36 ---

 
Health Plus   
 
Health Plus         UIN: NBHHLGP22157V032122 
 
 
Internal 
(iv) Pre-existing Diseases (Code–Excl01):  
a. Expenses related to the treatment of a Pre-existing Disease (PED) and its direct complications 
shall be excluded until the expiry of the number of months (as mentioned in Policy 
Schedule/Certificate of Insurance) of continuous coverage after the date of inception of the 
first Policy with Us. 
b. In case of enhancement of Sum Insured the exclusion shall apply afresh to the extent of Sum 
Insured increase. 
c. If the Insured Person is continuously covered without any break as defined under the 
portability norms of the extant IRDAI (Health Insurance) regulations, then waiting period for 
the same would be reduced to the extent of prior coverage. 
d. Coverage under the Policy after the expiry of number of months (as mentioned in Policy 
Schedule/Certificate of Insurance) for any Pre-existing Disease is subject to the same being 
declared at the time of application and accepted by Us. 
 
(v) Specified disease/procedure waiting period (Code- Excl02) 
a. Expenses related to the treatment of the listed conditions, surgeries/treatments shall be 
excluded until the expiry of number of months (as mentioned in Policy 
Schedule/Certificate of Insurance) of continuous coverage after the date of inception of 
the first Policy with us. This exclusion shall not be applicable for claims arising due to an 
Accident (covered from day 1) or Cancer (covered after 30-day waiting period). 
b. In case of enhancement of Sum In sured the exclusion shall apply afresh to the extent of 
Sum Insured increase. 
c. If any of the specified disease/procedure falls under the waiting period specified for pre-
Existing diseases, then the longer of the two waiting periods shall apply. 
d. The waiting period for listed conditions shall apply even if contracted after the Policy or 
declared and accepted without a specific exclusion. 
e. If the Insured Person is continuously covered without any break as defined under the 
applicable norms on portability stipula ted by IRDAI then waiting period for the same 
would be reduced to the extent of prior coverage. 
f. List of specific diseases/procedures(Below mentioned diseases/procedures can be 
modified and in that case the list will be mentioned in Policy Schedule/Certific ate of 
Insurance): 
a. Pancreatitis and stones in biliary and urinary system. 
b. Cataract, Glaucoma and other disorders of lens and disorders of retina. 
c. Hyperplasia of prostate, hydrocele and spermatocele. 
d. Abnormal utero -vaginal bleeding, female genital prolapse,  
endometriosis/adenomyosis, fibroids, PCOD, or any condition requiring d ilation 
and curettage or hysterectomy. 
e. Hemorrhoids, fissure or fistula or abscess of anal and rectal region. 
f. Hernia of all sites. 
g. Osteoarthritis, Systemic Connective Tissue disorders, Dorsopathies, 
Spondylopathies, inflammatory Polyarthropathies, Arthrosis such as RA, Gout, 
Intervertebral Disc disorders. 
h. Chronic kidney disease and failure. 
i. Varicose veins of lower extremities. 

--- PAGE 37 ---

 
Health Plus   
 
Health Plus         UIN: NBHHLGP22157V032122 
 
 
Internal 
j. Disease of middle ear and mastoid including Otitis Media, Cholesteatoma, 
Perforation of Tympanic Membrane. 
k. All internal or external benign or in situ neoplasms/tumours, cyst, sinus, polyp, 
nodules, swelling, mass or lump. 
l. Ulcer, erosion and varices of upper gastro intestinal tract. 
m. Tonsils and adenoids, nasal septum and nasal sinuses. 
n. Internal Congenital Anomaly  
 
(vi)  Initial waiting period:  
 
a. A Waiting Period since beginning of cover under the First Policy, specified in the Policy 
Schedule/ Certificate of Insurance shall apply to any Illness contracted and/or Medi cal 
Expenses incurred in respect of any Illness by the Insured Person other than 
Hospitalization due to Accident. 
b. This exclusion shall not, however, apply if the Insured Person has continuous coverage 
for more than twelve months 
c. The within referred waiting  period is made applicable to the enhanced Sum Insured in 
the event of granting higher Sum Insured subsequently. 
 
If these diseases are Pre -Existing Diseases at the time of the Proposal or subsequently found to be 
Pre-Existing Diseases, the Pre-Existing Disease Waiting Periods as mentioned in the Policy Schedule/ 
Certificate of Insurance shall apply in respect of that Insured Person. 
 
B. Permanent Exclusions: 
 
A permanent exclusion will be applied on any medical or physical condition or treatment of an Insured 
Person, if specifically mentioned in the Policy Schedule and has been accepted by You. This option as per 
company’s underwriting policy, will be used for such condition(s) or treatment(s) that otherwise would have 
resulted in rejection of insurance coverage under this Policy to such Insured Person. 
 
We shall not be liable to make any payment under this Policy directly or indirectly caused by, based on, 
arising out of or howsoever attributable to any of the following unless specifically mentioned elsewhere in 
the Policy.  
 
I. Investigation & Evaluation (Code-Excl04) 
a. Expenses related to any admission primarily for diagnostics and evaluation purposes only 
are excluded. 
b. Any diagnostic expenses which are not related or not incidental to the current diagnosis 
and treatment are excluded.  
 
II. Rest Cure, rehabilitation and respite care (Code-Excl05) 
Expenses related to any admission primarily for enforced bed rest and not for receiving treatment. 
This also includes: 
a. Custodial care either at home or in a nursing facility for personal care such as help with 
activities of daily living such as bathing, dressing, moving around either by skilled nurses or 
assistant or non-skilled persons.  
b. Any services for people who are terminally ill to address physical, social, emotional and 
spiritual needs. 
 

--- PAGE 38 ---

 
Health Plus   
 
Health Plus         UIN: NBHHLGP22157V032122 
 
 
Internal 
III. Obesity/ Weight Control (Code-Excl06) 
Expenses related to the surgical treatment of obesity that does not fulfil all the below conditions: 
a. Surgery to be conducted is upon the advice of the Doctor. 
b. The surgery/Procedure conducted should be supported by clinical protocols. 
c. The member has to be 18 years of age or older and; 
d. Body Mass Index (BMI); 
I. greater than or equal to 40 or 
II. greater than or equal to 35 in conjunction with any of the following severe co -
morbidities following failure of less invasive methods of weight loss: 
v. Obesity-related cardiomyopathy 
vi. Coronary heart disease  
vii. Severe Sleep Apnea 
viii. Uncontrolled Type2 Diabetes 
 
IV. Change-of-Gender treatments (Code-Excl07) 
Expenses related to any treatment, including surgical management, to change characteristics of the 
body to those of the opposite sex. 
 
V. Cosmetic or plastic Surgery (Code-Excl08) 
Expenses for cosmetic or plastic surgery  or any treatment to change appearance unless for 
reconstruction following an Accident, Burn(s) or Cancer or as part of medically necessary treatment 
to remove a direct and immediate health risk to the insured. For this to be considered a medical 
necessity, it must be certified by the attending Medical Practitioner. 
 
VI. Excluded Providers (Code-Excl11) 
Expenses incurred towards treatment in any Hospital or by any Medical Practitioner or any other 
provider specifically excluded by Us and disclosed in Our website / notified to the Policyholders are 
not admissible. However, in case of life threatening situations or following an Accident, expenses 
up to the stage of stabilization are payable but not the complete claim. The complete list of 
excluded providers can be referred to on our website. 
 
VII. Treatment for, alcoholism, drug or substance abuse or any addictive condition and consequences 
thereof. (Code-Excl12) 
 
VIII. Treatments received in heath hydros , nature cure clinics, spas or similar establishments or private 
beds registered as a nursing home attached to such establishments or where admission is arranged 
wholly or partly for domestic reasons. (Code-Excl13) 
 
IX. Refractive Error (Code-Excl15) 
Expenses related to the treatment for correction of eye sight due to refractive error less than 7.5 
dioptres. 
 
X. Unproven Treatments (Code-Excl16) 
Expenses related to any unproven treatment, services and supplies for or in connection with any 
treatment. Unproven treatments are treatments, procedures or supplies that lack significant 
medical documentation to support their effectiveness. 
 
XI. Sterility and Infertility (Code-Excl17) 
Expenses related to sterility and infertility. This includes: 
a. Any type of contraception, sterilization 
b. Assisted Reproduction services including artificial insemination and advanced reproductive 
technologies such as IVF, ZIFT, GIFT, ICSI 

--- PAGE 39 ---

 
Health Plus   
 
Health Plus         UIN: NBHHLGP22157V032122 
 
 
Internal 
c. Gestational Surrogacy 
d. Reversal of sterilization 
 
XII. Maternity (Code-Excl18) 
a. Medical treatment expenses traceable to childbirth (including complicated deliveries and 
caesarean sections incurred during hospitalization) except ectopic pregnancy;  
b. Expenses towards miscarriage (unless due to an accident) and lawful medical termination 
of pregnancy during the policy period. 
 
XIII. Circumcision 
Circumcision unless necessary for the treatment of a disease or necessitated by an Accident. 
 
XIV. External Congenital Anomaly:  
Screening, counseling or treatment related to external Congenital Anomaly. 
 
XV. Sexually transmitted Infections & diseases (other than HIV / AIDS):  
Screening, prevention and treatment for sexually related infection or disease (other than HIV / 
AIDS). 
 
XVI. Sleep disorders:  
Treatment for any conditions related to disturbance of normal sleep patterns or behaviors. 
 
XVII. Any expenses incurred on OPD treatment  
  
XVIII. Artificial life maintenance:  Artificial life maintenance, including life support machine used to 
sustain a person, who has been declared brain dead, as demonstrated by:  
a. Deep coma and unresponsiveness to all forms of stimulation; or 
b. Absent pupillary light reaction; or 
c. Absent oculovestibular and corneal reflexes; or  
d. Complete apnea. 
 
XIX. Any form of Alternate Treatment:  
a. Ayurvedic, Homeopathic, Unani, Yoga and Siddha streams of treatment; 
b. Hydrotherapy, Acupuncture, Reflexology, Chiropractic Treatment or any other form of 
indigenous system of medicine. 
 
XX. Unrecognized Physician or Hospital: 
a. Treatment or Medical Advice provided by a Medical Practitioner not recognized by the Me dical 
Council of India or by Central Council of Indian Medicine or by Central Council of Homeopathy 
or by relevant authorities in the area where the treatment is taken.  
b. Treatment or Medical Advice related to one system of medicine provided by a Medical  
Practitioner of another system of medicine. 
c. Treatment provided by anyone with the same residence as an Insured Person or who is a 
member of the Insured Person’s immediate family or relatives. 
d. Treatment provided by Hospital or health facility that is  not recognized by the relevant 
authorities in India or any other country where treatment takes place. 
 
XXI. Off- label Drug or Treatment:  

--- PAGE 40 ---

 
Health Plus   
 
Health Plus         UIN: NBHHLGP22157V032122 
 
 
Internal 
Use of pharmaceutical drugs for an unapproved indication or in an unapproved age group, dosage, 
or route of administratio n as regulated and approved by Central Drugs Standard Control 
Organization (CDSCO) 
 
XXII. Drugs and Dressings for OPD Treatment orTake-home Use: Any drugs or surgical dressings that are 
provided or prescribed in the case of OPD Treatment, or for an Insured Person to take home on 
leaving Hospital, for any condition, except as included in Post -hospitalization Medical Expenses 
under Section3.1.1.3. 
 
3.2.2. Claims Process & Requirements: 
The fulfillment of the terms and conditions of this Policy (including payment of full premium in advance 
by the due dates mentioned in the Policy Schedule/Certificate of Insurance) in so far as they relate to 
anything to be d one or complied with by any Insured Person, including complying with the following in 
relation to claims, shall be Condition Precedent to admission of Our liability under this Policy. 
 
Claims Administration: 
On the occurrence or discovery of any Illness or Injury that may give rise to a claim under this Section, 
the Claims Procedure set out below shall be followed: 
a. The directions, advice and guidance of the treating Medical Practitioner shall be strictly 
followed. We shall not be obliged to make any payment that arises out of willful failure to 
comply with such directions, advice or guidance. 
b. We or Our representatives must be permitted to inspect the medical and Hospitalization 
records pertaining to the Insured  Person’s treatment and to investigate the circumstances 
pertaining to the claim. 
c. We and Our representatives must be given all reasonable co-operation in investigating the claim 
in order to assess Our liability and quantum in respect of the claim. 
 
It is h ereby agreed and understood that no change in the Medical Record provided under the Medical 
Advice information, by the Hospital or the Insured Person to Us or Our Service Provider during the 
period of Hospitalization or after discharge by any means of request will be accepted by Us. Any decision 
on request for acceptance of change will be at Our discretion. 
 
Claims Procedure: 
On the occurrence or the discovery of any Illness or Injury that may give rise to a claim under this Policy, 
then as a Condition Prec edent to Our liability under the Policy the following procedure shall be 
complied with: 
We shall be informed of the claim along with the following details within 48 hours of admission to the 
Hospital or before discharge from the Hospital, whichever is earlier: 
i. The Policy Number; 
ii. Name of the Policyholder; 
iii. Name and address of the Insured Person in respect of whom the request is being made; 
iv. Nature of Illness or Injury and the treatment/Surgery taken; 
v. Name and address of the attending Medical Practitioner;  
vi. Hospital where treatment/Surgery was taken; 
vii. Date of admission and date of discharge; 
Any other information that may be relevant to the Illness/ Injury/ Hospitalization. 
 

--- PAGE 41 ---

 
Health Plus   
 
Health Plus         UIN: NBHHLGP22157V032122 
 
 
Internal 
Claims Documentation 
We shall be provided with the following necessary information an d documentation in respect of all 
claims at Your/Insured Person’s expense within 30 days of the Insured Person’s discharge from 
Hospital.  
a. Claim form duly completed and signed by the claimant. 
Please provide mandatorily following information, if applicable 
i. Current diagnosis and date of diagnosis; 
ii. Past history and first consultation details; 
iii. Previous admission/Surgery if any. 
b. Age/identity proof document of the Insured Person. 
i. Self-attested copy of valid Age proof (passport/driving license/PAN card/class X certificate/ 
birth certificate); 
ii. Self-attested copy of identity proof (passport/driving license/PAN card/voter identity 
card); 
iii. Recent passport size photograph. 
c. Cancelled cheque/bank statement/copy of passbook mentioning account holder’s name, IFSC 
code and account number printed on it of the Insured Person/Nominee (in case of death of the 
Insured Person). 
d. Original Hospital discharge summary. 
e. Additional documents required in case of Surgery/Surgical Procedure. 
i. Bar code sticker and invoice for implants and prosthesis (if used); 
f. Original final bill from Hospital with detailed break-up and paid receipt. 
g. Original bills of pharmacy/medicines purchased, or of any other investigation done outside 
Hospital with reports and requisite prescriptions. 
h. Copy of death certificate (in case of demise of the Insured Person). 
i. For Medico-legal cases (MLC) or in case of Accident 
i. MLC/First Information Report (FIR) copy attested by the concerned Hospital/police station (if 
applicable); 
ii. Original self-narration of incident in absence of MLC/FIR. 
j. Original laboratory investigation, diagnostic and pathological reports with supporting 
prescriptions. 
k. Original X-Ray/MRI/ultrasound films and other radiological investigations. 
 
Claims Assessment 
The claim would be assessed and the payout would be made as per the Sum Insured specified in the Policy 
Schedule/Certificate of Insurance. 
 
 
3.3. Hospital Cash Benefit: 
 
3.3.1. Coverage Options 
 
3.3.1.1. Daily Cash Benefit 
 
What is covered: 
 

--- PAGE 42 ---

 
Health Plus   
 
Health Plus         UIN: NBHHLGP22157V032122 
 
 
Internal 
If an Insured Person suffers an Illness or sustains an Injury that solely and directly leads to the Insured 
Person’s Hospitalization during the Policy Period, then We will pay the daily cashamount specified in the 
Policy Schedule/Certificate of Insurance for each continuous an d completed period of 24 hours of 
Hospitalization  
 
Conditions: 
a. We shall not be liable to make any payment under this Benefit in excess of the maximum number of days 
specified in the Policy Schedule/Certificate of Insurance , including all days of admission  of the Insured 
Person in the Intensive Care Unit. 
b. We shall not be liable to make any payment under this Benefit in respect Domiciliary Hospitalization or 
Maternity Expenses or New Born Baby coverage. 
 
3.3.1.2. ICU Cash Benefit 
 
What is covered: 
 
 
If an Insured Person is required to be admitted to the Intensive Care Unit of a Hospital solely and directly 
due to an injury arising from an Accident or due to an Illness, then We will pay twice the Daily Cash specified 
in the Certificate of Insurance for  each continuous and completed period of 24 hours of admission in the 
Intensive Care Unit. 
 
Conditions: 
a. We shall not be liable to make any payment under this Benefit in excess of the maximum number of days 
specified in the Policy Schedule/Certificate of Insurance, including all days of admission of the Insured 
Person in the Hospital room. 
b. We shall not be liable to make any payment under this Benefit in respect Domiciliary Hospitalization or 
Maternity Expenses or New Born Baby coverage. 
 
3.3.1.3. Daily Cash Benefit with Franchise 
 
What is covered: 
 
If an Insured Person suffers an Illness or sustains an Injury that s olely and directly leads to the Insured 
Person’s Hospitalization during the Policy Period, then We will pay the daily allowance amount specified in 
the Policy Schedule/Certificate of Insurance for each continuous and completed period of 24 hours of 
Hospitalization  
 
Conditions: 
a. The Insured Person is Hospitalized for at least the minimum period specified in the Policy 
Schedule/Certificate of Insurance following which the Benefit amount  will be payable from the first 
completed day of Hospitalization. 
b. We shall not be liable to make any payment under this Benefit in excess of the maximum number of days 
specified in the Policy Schedule/Certificate of Insurance, including all days of admission of the Insured 
Person in the Intensive Care Unit. 

--- PAGE 43 ---

 
Health Plus   
 
Health Plus         UIN: NBHHLGP22157V032122 
 
 
Internal 
c. We shall not be liabl e to make any payment under this Benefit in respect Domiciliary Hospitalization or 
Maternity Expenses or New Born Baby coverage. 
 
3.3.1.4. ICU Cash Benefit with Franchise 
 
What is covered: 
 
If an Insured Person is required to be admitted to the Intensive Care Unit of a Hospital solely and directly 
due to an injury arising from an Accident or due to an Illness, then We will pay twice the Daily Cash specified 
in the Certificate of Insurance for each continuous and completed period of 24 hours of admission in the 
Intensive Care Unit. 
 
Conditions: 
a. The Insured Person is Hospitalized for at least the minimum period specified in the Policy 
Schedule/Certificate of Insurance following which the Benefit amount  will be payable from the first 
completed day of Hospitalization. 
b. We shall not be liable to make any payment under this Benefit in excess of the maximum number of 
days specified in the Policy Schedule/Certificate of Insurance, including all days of admission of the 
Insured Person in the Hospital room. 
c. We shall not be liable to make any payment under this Benefit in respect Domiciliary Hospitalization or 
Maternity Expenses or New Born Baby coverage. 
 
3.3.1.5. Daily Hospital Cash with Deductible 
 
What is covered: 
 
If an Insured Person suffers an Illness or sustains an Injury that solely and directly leads to the Insured 
Person’s Hospitalization during the Policy Period, then We will pay the daily allowance amount specified in 
the Policy Schedule/Certificate of Insurance for each continu ous and completed period of 24 hours of 
Hospitalization. 
 
Conditions: 
a. The Insured Person is Hospitalized for at least the minimum period specified in the Policy 
Schedule/Certificate of Insurance following which the Benefit amount will be payable for completed days of 
Hospitalization following the completion of the Deductible. 
b. We shall not be liable to make any payment under this Benefit in excess of the maximum number of days 
specified in the Policy Schedule/Certificate of Insurance, including all days of admission of the Insured 
Person in the Intensive Care Unit. 
c. We shall not be liable to make any payment under this Benefit in respect Domiciliary Hospitalization or 
Maternity Expenses or New Born Baby coverage. 
 
3.3.1.6. Accidental Hospital Cash Benefit  
 
What is covered: 
 

--- PAGE 44 ---

 
Health Plus   
 
Health Plus         UIN: NBHHLGP22157V032122 
 
 
Internal 
If an Insured Person sustains an Injury that solely and directly leads to the Insured Person’s Hospitalization 
during the Policy Period , then We will pay the Accidental Hospital Cash  amount specified in the Policy 
Schedule/Certificate of Insurance for each continuous and completed period of 24 hours of Hospitalization. 
 
Conditions: 
a. We shall not be liable to make any payment under this Benefit in excess of the maximum number of days 
specified in the Policy Schedule/Certificate of Insurance, including  all days of admission of the Insured 
Person in the Intensive Care Unit. 
b. We shall not be liable to make any payment under this Benefit in respect Domiciliary Hospitalization or 
Maternity Expenses or New Born Baby coverage. 
 
3.3.1.7. Accidental Hospital ICU Cash Benefit 
 
What is covered: 
 
 
If an Insured Person is required to be admitted to the Intensive Care Unit of a Hospital solely and directly 
due to an injury arising from an Accident, then We will pay twice the Accidental HospitalCash specified in 
the Certificate of Insurance for each continuous and completed period of 24 hours of admission in the 
Intensive Care Unit. 
 
Conditions: 
a. We shall not be liable to make any payment under this Benefit in excess of the maximum number of days 
specified in the Policy Schedule/Certificate of Insurance, including all days of admission of the Insured 
Person in the Hospital room. 
b. We shall not be liable to make any payment under this Benefit in respect Domiciliary Hospitalization or 
Maternity Expenses or New Born Baby coverage. 
 
3.3.1.8. Accidental Hospital Cash Benefit with Franchise 
 
What is covered: 
 
If an Insured Person suffers an Injury that solely and directly leads to the Insured Person’s Hospitalization 
during the Policy Period, then We will pay the daily Accidental Hospital Cash amount specified in the Policy 
Schedule/Certificate of Insurance for each continuous and completed period of 24 hours of Hospitalization  
 
Conditions: 
a. The Insured Person is Hospitalized for at least the minimum period specified in the Policy 
Schedule/Certificate of Insurance following which the Benefit amount  will be payable from the first 
completed day of Hospitalization. 
b. We shall not be liable to make any payment under this Benefit in excess of the maximum number of days 
specified in the Policy Schedule/Certificate of Insurance, including all days of admission of the Insured 
Person in the Intensive Care Unit. 
c. We shall not be liable to make any payment under this Benefit in respect Domiciliary Hospitalization or 
Maternity Expenses or New Born Baby coverage. 
 

--- PAGE 45 ---

 
Health Plus   
 
Health Plus         UIN: NBHHLGP22157V032122 
 
 
Internal 
3.3.1.9. Accidental Hospital ICU Cash Benefit with Franchise 
 
What is covered: 
 
If an Insured Person is required to be admitted to the Intensive Care Unit of a Hospital solely and directly 
due to an injury arising from an Accident, then We will pay twice the Accidental Hospital Cash Benefit  
specified in the Certificate of Insurance for each continuous and completed period of 24 hours of admission 
in the Intensive Care Unit. 
 
Conditions: 
a. The Insured Person is Hospitalized for at least the minimum period specified in the Policy 
Schedule/Certificate of Insurance following which the Benefit amount  will be payable from the first 
completed day of Hospitalization. 
b. We shall not be liable to make any payment under this Benefit in excess of the maxi mum number of 
days specified in the Policy Schedule/Certificate of Insurance, including all days of admission of the 
Insured Person in the Hospital room. 
c. We shall not be liable to make any payment under this Benefit in respect Domiciliary Hospitalization or 
Maternity Expenses or New Born Baby coverage. 
 
3.3.1.10. Accidental Hospital Cash Benefit with Deductible 
 
What is covered: 
 
If an Insured Person suffers an Injury that solely and directly leads to the Insured Person’s Hospitalization 
during the Policy Period, then We will pay the Accidental Hospital Cash  amount specified in the Policy 
Schedule/Certificate of Insurance for each continuous and completed period of 24 hours of Hospitalization. 
 
Conditions: 
a. The Insured Person is Hospitalized for at least the minimum period specified in the Policy 
Schedule/Certificate of Insurance following which the Benefit amount will be payable for completed days of 
Hospitalization following the completion of the Deductible. 
b. We shall not be liable to make any payment under this Benefit in excess of the maximum number of days 
specified in the Policy Schedule/Certificate of Insurance, including all days of admission of the Insured 
Person in the Intensive Care Unit. 
c. We shall not be liable to make any payment under this Benefit in respect Domiciliary Hospitalization or 
Maternity Expenses or New Born Baby coverage. 
 
3.3.1.11. Section Specific Condition 
All the Waiting Periods as specified in Policy Schedule/ Certificate of Insurance shall be applicable 
individually for each Insured Person and claims shall be assessed accordingly. On Renewal, if an enhanced 
Sum Insured is applied for, the Waiting Periods would apply afresh to the extent of the increase in Sum 
Insured only. 
 
We shall not be liable to make any payment under this Policy directly or indirectly for, caused by, based on, 
arising out of or howsoever attributable to any of the following, except if any Insured Person suffers an 
Accident; 
 

--- PAGE 46 ---

 
Health Plus   
 
Health Plus         UIN: NBHHLGP22157V032122 
 
 
Internal 
A. Waiting Periods 
 
3.3.1.11.1. Pre-existing Diseases (Code–Excl01):  
a. Expenses related to the treatment of a Pre-existing Disease (PED) and its direct 
complications shall be excluded until the expiry of the number of months (as 
mentioned in Policy Schedule/Certificate of Insurance) of continuous coverage 
after the date of inception of the first Policy with Us. 
b. In case of enhancement of Sum Insured the exclusion shall apply afresh to the 
extent of Sum Insured increase. 
c. If the Insured Person is continuously covered without any break as defined under 
the portability norms of the extant IRDAI (Health Insurance) regulations, then 
waiting period for the same would be reduced to the extent of prior coverage. 
d. Coverage under the Policy after the expiry of number of months (as mentioned in 
Policy Schedule/Certificate of Insurance) for any Pre-existing Disease is subject to 
the same being declared at the time of application and accepted by Us. 
 
3.3.1.11.2. Specified disease/procedure waiting period (Code- Excl02) 
a. Expenses related to the treatment of the listed conditions, surgeries/treatments shall be 
excluded until the expiry of number of months (as mentioned in Policy 
Schedule/Certificate of Insurance) of co ntinuous coverage after the date of inception of 
the first Policy with us. This exclusion shall not be applicable for claims arising due to an 
Accident (covered from day 1)) or Cancer (covered after 30-day waiting period). 
b. In case of enhancement of Sum Ins ured the exclusion shall apply afresh to the extent of 
Sum Insured increase. 
c. If any of the specified disease/procedure falls under the waiting period specified for pre-
Existing diseases, then the longer of the two waiting periods shall apply. 
d. The waiting period for listed conditions shall apply even if contracted after the Policy or 
declared and accepted without a specific exclusion. 
e. If the Insured Person is continuously covered without any break as defined under the 
applicable norms on portability stipulat ed by IRDAI then waiting period for the same 
would be reduced to the extent of prior coverage. 
f. List of specific diseases/procedures(Below mentioned diseases/procedures can be 
modified and in that case the list will be mentioned in Policy Schedule/Certifica te of 
Insurance): 
a. Pancreatitis and stones in biliary and urinary system. 
b. Cataract, Glaucoma and other disorders of lens and disorders of retina. 
c. Hyperplasia of prostate, hydrocele and spermatocele. 
d. Abnormal utero -vaginal bleeding, female genital prolapse, 
endometriosis/adenomyosis, fibroids, PCOD, or any condition requiring d ilation 
and curettage or hysterectomy. 
e. Hemorrhoids, fissure or fistula or abscess of anal and rectal region. 
f. Hernia of all sites. 
g. Osteoarthritis, Systemic Connective Tissue disorders, D orsopathies, 
Spondylopathies, inflammatory Polyarthropathies, Arthrosis such as RA, Gout, 
Intervertebral Disc disorders. 
h. Chronic kidney disease and failure. 

--- PAGE 47 ---

 
Health Plus   
 
Health Plus         UIN: NBHHLGP22157V032122 
 
 
Internal 
i. Varicose veins of lower extremities. 
j. Disease of middle ear and mastoid including Otitis Media, Cholesteatoma, 
Perforation of Tympanic Membrane. 
k. All internal or external benign or in situ neoplasms/tumours, cyst, sinus, polyp, 
nodules, swelling, mass or lump. 
l. Ulcer, erosion and varices of upper gastro intestinal tract. 
m. Tonsils and adenoids, nasal septum and nasal sinuses. 
n. Internal Congenital Anomaly  
 
If these diseases are Pre -Existing Diseases at the time of the Proposal or subsequently found to be Pre -
Existing Diseases, the Pre -Existing Disease Waiting Periods as mentioned in the Policy Schedule/ 
Certificate of Insurance shall apply in respect of that Insured Person. 
 
3.3.1.11.3.  Initial waiting period:  
 
a. A Waiting Period since beginning of cover under the First Policy, specified in the Policy 
Schedule/ Certificate of Insurance shall apply to any Illness contracted and/or Medical 
Expenses incurred in respect of any Illness by the Insured Person other than 
Hospitalization due to Accident. 
b. This exclusion shall not, however, apply if the Insured Person has continuous coverage 
for more than twelve months 
c. The within referred waiting period is made applicable to the enhanced Sum Insured in 
the event of granting higher Sum Insured subsequently. 
 
B. Permanent Exclusions: 
 
A permanent exclusion will be applied on any medical or physical condition or treatment of an Insured 
Person, if specifically mentioned in the Policy Schedule and has been accepted by You. This optio n as per 
company’s underwriting policy, will be used for such condition(s) or treatment(s) that otherwise would have 
resulted in rejection of insurance coverage under this Policy to such Insured Person. 
 
We shall not be liable to make any payment under thi s Policy directly or indirectly caused by, based on, 
arising out of or howsoever attributable to any of the following unless specifically mentioned elsewhere in 
the Policy.  
 
I. Investigation & Evaluation (Code-Excl04) 
c. Expenses related to any admission primar ily for diagnostics and evaluation purposes only 
are excluded. 
d. Any diagnostic expenses which are not related or not incidental to the current diagnosis 
and treatment are excluded.  
 
II. Rest Cure, rehabilitation and respite care (Code-Excl05) 
Expenses related to any admission primarily for enforced bed rest and not for receiving treatment. 
This also includes: 
c. Custodial care either at home or in a nursing facility for personal care such as help with 
activities of daily living such as bathing, dressing, moving around either by skilled nurses or 
assistant or non-skilled persons.  
d. Any services for people who are terminally ill to address physical, social, emotional and 
spiritual needs. 

--- PAGE 48 ---

 
Health Plus   
 
Health Plus         UIN: NBHHLGP22157V032122 
 
 
Internal 
 
III. Obesity/ Weight Control (Code-Excl06) 
Expenses related to the surgical treatment of obesity that does not fulfil all the below conditions: 
e. Surgery to be conducted is upon the advice of the Doctor. 
f. The surgery/Procedure conducted should be supported by clinical protocols. 
g. The member has to be 18 years of age or older and; 
h. Body Mass Index (BMI); 
I. greater than or equal to 40 or 
II. greater than or equal to 35 in conjunction with any of the following severe co -
morbidities following failure of less invasive methods of weight loss: 
ix. Obesity-related cardiomyopathy 
x. Coronary heart disease  
xi. Severe Sleep Apnea 
xii. Uncontrolled Type2 Diabetes 
 
IV. Cosmetic or plastic Surgery (Code-Excl08) 
Expenses for cosmetic or plastic surgery or any treatment to change appearance unless for 
reconstruction following an Accident, Burn(s) or Cancer or as part of medically necessary treatment 
to remove a direct and immediate health risk to the insured. For t his to be considered a medical 
necessity, it must be certified by the attending Medical Practitioner. 
 
V. Excluded Providers (Code-Excl11) 
Expenses incurred towards treatment in any Hospital or by any Medical Practitioner or any other 
provider specifically excluded by Us and disclosed in Our website / notified to the Policyholders are 
not admissible. However, in case of life threatening situations or following an Accident, expenses 
up to the stage of stabilization are payable but not the complete claim. The co mplete list of 
excluded providers can be referred to on our website.  
 
VI. Treatment for, alcoholism, drug or substance abuse or any addictive condition and consequences 
thereof. (Code-Excl12) 
 
VII. Treatments received in heath hydros , nature cure clinics, spas or similar establishments or private 
beds registered as a nursing home attached to such establishments or where admission is arranged 
wholly or partly for domestic reasons. (Code-Excl13) 
 
 
 
VIII. Refractive Error (Code-Excl15) 
Expenses related to the treatment for correction of eye sight due to refractive error less than 7.5 
dioptres. 
 
IX. Unproven Treatments (Code-Excl16) 
Expenses related to any unproven treatment, services and supplies for or in connection with any 
treatment. Unproven treatments are treatments, procedures or supplies that lack significant 
medical documentation to support their effectiveness. 
 
X. Circumcision 
Circumcision unless necessary for the treatment of a disease or necessitated by an Accident. 
 
XI. External Congenital Anomaly:  
Screening, counseling or treatment related to external Congenital Anomaly. 
 

--- PAGE 49 ---

 
Health Plus   
 
Health Plus         UIN: NBHHLGP22157V032122 
 
 
Internal 
XII. Dental/oral treatment:  
Treatment, procedures and preventive, diagnostic, restorative, cosmetic services related to 
disease, disorder and conditions related to natural teeth and gingiva except if required by an 
Insured Person while Hospitalized due to an Accident. 
 
XIII. Sexually transmitted Infections & diseases (other than HIV / AIDS):  
Screening, prevention and treatment for sexually related infection or disease (other than HIV /  
AIDS). 
 
XIV. Sleep disorders:  
Treatment for any conditions related to disturbance of normal sleep patterns or behaviors. 
 
XV. Any treatment or medical services received outside the geographical limits of India. 
  
XXIII. Artificial life maintenance:  Artificial life maintenance, including life support machine used to 
sustain a person, who has been declared brain dead, as demonstrated by:  
a. Deep coma and unresponsiveness to all forms of stimulation; or 
b. Absent pupillary light reaction; or 
c. Absent oculovestibular and corneal reflexes; or  
d. Complete apnea. 
 
XXIV. Any form of Alternate Treatment:  
a. Ayurvedic, Homeopathic, Unani, Yoga and Siddha streams of treatment; 
b. Hydrotherapy, Acupuncture, Reflexology, Chiropractic Treatment or any other form of 
indigenous system of medicine. 
 
XXV. Unrecognized Physician or Hospital: 
a. Treatment or Medical Advice provided by a Medical Practitioner not recognized by the Medical 
Council of India or by Central Council of Indian Medicine or by Central Council of Homeopathy 
or by relevant authorities in the area where the treatment is taken.  
b. Treatment or Medical Advice related to one system of medicine provided by a Medical 
Practitioner of another system of medicine. 
c. Treatment provided by anyone with the same residence as an Insured Person or who is a 
member of the Insured Person’s immediate family or relatives. 
d. Treatment provided by Hospital or health facility that is not recognized by the relevant 
authorities in India or any other country where treatment takes place. 
 
3.4. OPD Coverage 
3.4.1. Coverage Options 
 
3.4.1.1. OPD Treatment & Diagnostic Cover (Excl. Dental Expenses & Vision Expenses): 
 
What is covered: 
 
We will indemnify the Reasonable and Customary Charges incurred in respect of the Insured Person for OPD 
Treatment taken during the Policy Period, as specified to be applicable to the Insured Person in the Policy 
Schedule/Certificate of Insurance. 
 

--- PAGE 50 ---

 
Health Plus   
 
Health Plus         UIN: NBHHLGP22157V032122 
 
 
Internal 
For the purpose of this Benefit, OPD Treatment will include the following provided that it is specified to be 
applicable for the Insured Person in the Policy Schedule/Certificate of Insurance: 
a. Consultation changes 
b. OPD procedures 
c. Diagnostic Tests based on the written advice of a Medical Practitioner 
d. Prescribed medicines followed by consultation and Diagnostic Test. 
 
Conditions: 
a. Expenses under this Benefit are covered for ayurvedic or homeopathic or unani or sidha orallopathic 
treatment only and We will not pay any expenses where Alternative Treatment and allopathic 
treatment are taken in conjugation with each other.  
b. For treatment taken under ayurveda, homeopathy, unani or sidha, expenses are covered only if taken 
in a government Hospital or in any institute recognized by government and/or accredited by Quality 
Council of India/National Accreditation Board on Health. 
c. The OPD Treatment and/or Diagnostic Tests are Medically Necessary Treatment and follow the written 
advice of a Medical Practitioner. 
d. Diagnostic Tests are performed on an outpatient basis with or without local anesthetics for topical, 
infiltration, nerve block anesthesia and require Hospitalization for less than 24 hours. 
 
3.4.1.2. OPD Dental Expenses: 
 
What is covered: 
We will indemnify the Reasonable and Customary Charges incurred in respect of the Insured Person towards 
Dental Treatment taken during the Policy Periodup to the limit specified in the Policy Schedule/Certificate of 
Insurance. Wewill indemnify only those expenses incurred in excess of the Co -payment specified in the 
Policy Schedule/Certificate of Insurance. 
 
What is not covered: 
We will not be liable to make any payment in respect of the following treatments under this Benefit: 
a. Replacing any dental appliance which is lost or stolen. 
b. Plastic surgery or cosmetic surgery unless necessary as a part of Medically Necessary Treatment and 
certified in writing by the attending Medical Practitioner. 
 
3.4.1.3. OPD VisionExpenses excluding spectacles & lenses  
 
What is covered: 
We will indemnify the Reasonable and Customary Charges incurred in respect of the Insured Person towards 
any vision treatment by an Optometrist or Ophthalmologist taken during the Policy Periodup to the limit 
specified in the Policy Schedule/Certificate of Insurance. We will indemnify only those expenses incurred in 
excess of the Co-payment specified in the Policy Schedule/Certificate of Insurance. 
 
What is not covered: 
We will not be liable to make any payment in respect of the following under this Benefit: 
a. Cost of frames for the prescribed lenses. 
b. Sunglasses, unless medically prescribed by the treating Medical Practitioner. 
c. Any lenses including contact lenses. 

--- PAGE 51 ---

 
Health Plus   
 
Health Plus         UIN: NBHHLGP22157V032122 
 
 
Internal 
 
3.4.1.4. OPD Vision Expenses including spectacles & lenses  
 
What is covered: 
We will indemnify the Reasonable and Customary Charges incurred in respect of the Insured Person towards 
any vision treatment by an Optometrist or Ophthalmologist taken during the Policy Period up to the li mit 
specified in the Policy Schedule/Certificate of Insurance. We will indemnify only those expenses incurred in 
excess of the Co-payment specified in the Policy Schedule/Certificate of Insurance. 
 
3.4.2. Claims Process & Requirements: 
On the occurrence or the discovery of any Illness or Injury that may give rise to a claim under this Section, then as 
a Condition Precedent to Our liability under this Section the following procedure shall be complied with: 
 
Claims Documentation: 
a. Claim form duly completed and signed by the claimant. 
b. Original Bills with detailed breakup of charges (including but not limited to pharmacy, purchase bill, 
consultation bill, and diagnostic bill) and any attachments thereto like receipts or prescriptions in support of 
any amount claimed which will then becomeOurproperty. 
c. Original payment receipts 
d. All reports, including but not limited to all medical reports, case histories, investigation reports, treatment 
papers, discharge summaries, OPD treatment card, consultation notes. 
 
Claims Assessment & Repudiation: 
All admissible claims under this Policy shall be assessed by Us post considering Co-Payment (if applicable) as 
specified in the Policy Schedule/ Certificate of Insurance shall be applicable on the amount payable by Us. 
 
3.5. International Coverage: 
The following Benefits shall be available only outside the geographical boundaries of India and only in those 
territories specified in the Policy Schedule/Certificate of Insurance.  
 
3.5.1. Coverage Options: 
 
3.5.1.1. Emergency Medical Evacuation: 
 
What is covered: 
 
We will indemnify the Reasonable and Customary Charges incurred for the Insured Person’s Medical 
Evacuation in an Emergencyduring the Policy Period and for which medical facilities are not available locally, 
but only within the regions specified in the Policy Schedule/Certificate of Insurance. 
 
Conditions: 
a. We will provide this Benefit from the place of Insured Person’s Hospitalization to a Hospital where 
adequate treatment is available, if necessary treatment is not av ailable locally or Medical Evacuation is 
required for Medically Necessary Treatment for saving the life of the Insured Person. 
b. Medical Evacuation is required for stabilizing the Insured Person and is advised in writing by the treating 
Medical Practitioner. 

--- PAGE 52 ---

 
Health Plus   
 
Health Plus         UIN: NBHHLGP22157V032122 
 
 
Internal 
c. All claims under this Section shall be considered on a Cashless Facility basis only. 
d. We or Our Service Provider has approved the request for Medical Evacuation. 
e. We or Our Service Provider, will arrange for the evacuation utilizing the means (including air ambulance 
or commercial flight) best suited to do so, based on the medical severity of Insured Person‘s condition. 
f. We will also cover the costs of transportation of an attending Medical Practitioner if Medically 
Necessary Treatment is required to be provided during the course of Medical Evacuation and advised in 
writing by the treating Medical Practitioner. 
g. Under this Benefit, We will cover expenses for services provided and/or arranged by Usfor the 
transportation of the Insured Person and shall include medical services and cost for medical supplies 
necessarily incurred as a result of the Emergency Medical Evacuation. 
g. We shall not be liable to make any payment under this Benefit if necessary medical treatment can be 
provided at the Hospital where the Insured Person is situated at the time of the Emergency. 
h. In addition, We will cover the reasonable costs of travel incurred for the re turn journey (economy class) of 
the Insured Person and such person accompanying the Insured Person after receipt of appropriate Medically 
Necessary Treatment. 
 
3.5.1.2. Emergency Hospitalization: 
 
What is covered: 
 
If the Insured Person is required to be admitted  in a Hospital immediately after the Emergency Medical 
Evacuation for the same diagnosis  during the Policy Period , We will indemnify the Medical Expenses 
incurred on Hospitalization of that Insured Person until the Insured Person reaches a medically stable 
condition during the Policy Period. 
 
Conditions: 
a. The Hospitalization is for Medically Necessary Treatment and follows the written advice of the treating 
Medical Practitioner. 
b. The Insured Person is required to be admitted in a Hospital in an Emergency when  the Insured Person 
is outside India, but within one of those regions specified in the Policy Schedule/Certificate of 
Insurance. 
c. We have accepted a claim under Section 3.5.1.1 (Emergency Medical Evacuation). 
d. All claims under this Section shall be considered on a Cashless Facility basis only. 
e. The Medical Expenses incurred are Reasonable and Customary Charges for one or more of the 
following: 
i. Room Rent; 
ii. Nursing charges for Hospitalization as an Inpatient; 
iii. Medical Practitioners’ fees, excluding any charges or fees for Standby Services; 
iv. Physiotherapy, investigation and diagnostics procedures directly related to the current 
admission; 
v. Medicines, drugs as prescribed by the treating Medical Practitioner; 
vi. Intravenous fluids, blood transfusion, injection administration charges and /or consumables; 
vii. Operation theatre charges; 
viii. The cost of prosthetics and other devices or equipment if implanted internally during a Surgical 
Procedure; 
ix. ICU Charges. 

--- PAGE 53 ---

 
Health Plus   
 
Health Plus         UIN: NBHHLGP22157V032122 
 
 
Internal 
f. We shall not be liable to indemnify any Medical Expenses incurred in respect of Hospitalization of the 
Insured Person that commences or continues after the completion of the Policy Period.  
 
3.5.1.3. Specified Illness Cover: 
 
What is covered  
 
If the Insured Person suffers a Specified Illness (as defined below ) during the Policy Period , We will 
indemnify the Reasonable and Customary Charges in respect of Medical Expenses of the Insured Person 
incurred towards treatment of that Specified Illness that would oth erwise have been payable under Section 
3.1.1.1 (Inpatient Care). 
 
Conditions: 
a. The symptoms of the Specified Illness first occur or manifest itself during the Policy Period and after 
completion of 90 days from the inception of the First Policy with Us. 
b. The Specified Illness is diagnosed by a Medical Practitioner within India during the Policy Period and 
after completion of the 90 day from the inception of the First Policy with Us. 
c. Medical treatment for the Specified Illness is taken outside India within the Policy/Coverage Periodbut 
only within those regions specified in the Policy Schedule/Certificate of Insurance. 
d. All claims under this Section shall be considered on a Cashless Facility basis only. 
 
What is not covered: 
a. Any claims for Reimbursement of the costs incurred in relation to the treatment of the Specified Illness 
or any claims which are not pre-authorized by Us. 
b. Any costs or expenses incurred in relation to any persons accompanying the Insured Person during any 
period of treatment, even if such person(s) are also Insured Person(s). 
c. Any costs or expenses incurred in relation to the travel to or from the overseas location where 
treatment is being taken. 
d. Any costs or expenses incurred in relation to personal stay or  transportation in the overseas location 
where treatment is being taken. 
e. Any Pre-hospitalization Medical Expenses or Post-hospitalization Medical Expenses incurred by or on 
behalf of the Insured Person. 
f. Any costs or expenses incurred in relation to transpo rtation of repatriation of the mortal remains of 
the Insured Person. 
g. Any costs or expenses incurred by any organ donor in relation to harvesting of organs. 
h. Any OPD Treatment taken outside India 
 
For the purposes of this Benefit, Specified Illness means the following Illnesses or procedures: 
 
a. Cancer of Specified Severity 
 
I. A malignant tumor characterized by the uncontrolled growth and spread of malignant cells with 
invasion and destruction of normal tissues. This diagnosis must be supported  by histological 
evidence of malignancy. The term cancer includes leukemia, lymphoma and sarcoma. 
 
II. The following are excluded – 

--- PAGE 54 ---

 
Health Plus   
 
Health Plus         UIN: NBHHLGP22157V032122 
 
 
Internal 
i. All tumors which are histologically described as carcinoma in situ, benign, pre -malignant, 
borderline malignant, low malignant p otential, neoplasm of unknown behaviour, or non -
invasive, including but not limited to: Carcinoma in situ of breasts, Cervical dysplasia CIN-1, CIN 
-2 and CIN-3. 
ii. Any non-melanoma skin carcinoma unless there is evidence of metastases to lymph nodes or 
beyond; 
iii. Malignant melanoma that has not caused invasion beyond the epidermis; 
iv. All tumors of the prostate unless histologically classified as having a Gleason score greater than 
6 or having progressed to at least clinical TNM classification T2N0M0 
v. All Thyroid cancers histologically classified as T1N0M0 (TNM Classification) or below; 
vi. Chronic lymphocytic leukaemia less than RAI stage 3 
vii. Non-invasive papillary cancer of the bladder histologically described as TaN0M0 or of a lesser 
classification, 
viii. All Gastro-Intestinal Stromal Tumors histologically classified as T1N0M0 (TNM Classification) or 
below and with mitotic count of less than or equal to 5/50 HPFs; 
ix. All tumors in the presence of HIV infection 
 
b. Myocardial Infarction(First Heart Attack of specific severity) 
I. The first occurrence of heart attack or myocardial infarction, which means the death of a portion of 
the heart muscle as a result of inadequate blood supply to the relevant area. The diagnosis for 
Myocardial Infarction should be evidenced by all of the following criteria: 
i. A history of typical clinical symptoms consistent with the diagnosis of acute myocardial 
infarction (For e.g. typical chest pain) 
ii. New characteristic electrocardiogram changes 
iii. Elevation of infarction specific enzymes, Troponins or other specific biochemical markers. 
II. The following are excluded: 
i. Other acute Coronary Syndromes 
ii. Any type of angina pectoris 
III. A rise in cardiac biomarkers or Troponin T or I in absence of overt ischemic heart disease or 
following an intra-arterial cardiac procedure 
 
c. Open Chest CABG 
I. The actual undergoing of heart surgery to correct blockage or narrowing in one or more coronary 
artery(s), by coronary artery bypass grafting done via a sternotomy (cutting through the breast bone) or 
minimally invasive keyhole coronary artery bypass procedures. The diagnosis must be supported by a 
coronary angiography and the realization of surgery has to be confirmed by a cardiologist. 
II. The following are excluded: 
i. Angioplasty and/or any other intra-arterial procedures 
 
d. Major Organ /Bone Marrow Transplant 
I. The actual undergoing of a transplant of: 
i. One of the following human organs: heart, lung, liver, kidney, pancreas, that resulted from 
irreversible end-stage failure of the relevant organ, or  
ii. Human bone marrow using haematopoietic stem cells. The undergoing of a transplant has to 
be confirmed by a specialist medical practitioner. 
 

--- PAGE 55 ---

 
Health Plus   
 
Health Plus         UIN: NBHHLGP22157V032122 
 
 
Internal 
II. The following are excluded: 
i. Other stem-cell transplants 
ii. Where only islets of langerhans are transplanted 
 
e. Stroke resulting in Permanent Symptoms 
I. Any cerebrovascular incident producing permanent neurological sequelae. This includes infarction of 
brain tissue, thrombosis in an intracranial vessel, haemorrhage and embolisation from an extracranial 
source. Diagnosis has to be conf irmed by a specialist medical practitioner and evidenced by typical 
clinical symptoms as well as typical findings in CT Scan or MRI of the brain. Evidence of permanent 
neurological deficit lasting for at least 3 months has to be produced. 
II. The following are excluded: 
i. Transient ischemic attacks (TIA) 
ii. Traumatic injury of the brain 
iii. Vascular disease affecting only the eye or optic nerve or vestibular functions 
 
f. Surgery of Aorta 
Surgery of aorta including graft, insertion of stents or endovascular repair. 
 
Specific Exclusion: Surgery for correction of an underlying Congenital Anomaly 
 
g. Angioplasty 
I. Coronary Angioplasty is defined as percutaneous coronary intervention by way of balloon 
angioplasty with or without stenting for treatment of the narrowing or blockage of minimum 
50 % of one or more major coronary arteries. The intervention must be determined to be 
medically necessary by a cardiologist and supported by a coronary angiogram (CAG). 
 
II. Coronary arteries herein refer to left main stem, left anterior descending, circumflex and right 
coronary artery. 
III. Diagnostic angiography or investigation procedures without angioplasty/stent insertion are 
excluded. 
 
h. Primary (Idiopathic) Pulmonary Hypertension 
I. An unequivocal diagnosis of Primary (Idiopathic) Pulmonary Hypertension by a Cardiologist or specialist in 
respiratory medicine with evidence of right ventricular enlargement and the pulmon ary artery pressure 
above 30 mm of Hg on Cardiac Cauterization. There must be permanent irreversible physical impairment to 
the degree of at least Class IV of the New York Heart Association Classification of cardiac impairment. 
II. The NYHA Classification of Cardiac Impairment are as follows: 
i. Class III: Marked limitation of physical activity. Comfortable at rest, but less than ordinary 
activity causes symptoms. 
ii. Class IV: Unable to engage in any physical activity without discomfort. Symptoms may be 
present even at rest. 
III. Pulmonary hypertension associated with lung disease, chronic hypoventilation, pulmonary 
thromboembolic disease, drugs and toxins, diseases of the left side of the heart, congenital heart 
disease and any secondary cause are specifically excluded. 
 
i. Brain Surgery 
Any brain (intracranial) Surgery required to treat traumatic or non-traumatic conditions.  

--- PAGE 56 ---

 
Health Plus   
 
Health Plus         UIN: NBHHLGP22157V032122 
 
 
Internal 
Specific Exclusion: Surgery for treating Neurocysticercosis 
 
3.5.1.4. Medical Repatriation 
 
What is covered: 
 
Following any Emergency Medical Evacuation in respect of which we have accepted a claim under Section 
3.5.1.1 above during the Policy Period , We reserve the right to request the repatriation of the Insured 
Person to a Hospital in the Insured Person's country of domicile or to the original  work location or the 
location from which the Insured Person was evacuated when a Medical Practitioner named by Our Service 
Provider, after speaking with a local attending Medical Practitioner, decides that the Insured Person is fit to 
undertake the journey.  
 
We will pay the Reasonable and Customary Charges for the most economical cost of travel (transport only) 
for the Insured Person and any individual who, because of medical necessity, has to accompany the Insured 
Person. If such transportation needs to be medically supervised, a qualified medical attendant will escort the 
Insured Person. If any mode of transportation other than the above is required and it is determined by the 
attending Medical Practitioner and agreed by Our Service Provider, We will arrange accordingly and such 
will be covered by Us. 
 
Medical repatriation must be determined by Our medical team to be medically necessary to prevent the 
immediate and significant effects of Illness, Injury or conditions which if left untreated could result i n a 
significant deterioration of health and it has been determined that the treatment is not available locally, and 
that it is necessary for medical reasons for the Insured Person to be returned to his/her country of domicile, 
Our Service Provider will arrange for the transport under proper medical supervision as soon as reasonably 
practicable. 
 
3.5.1.5. Repatriation of Mortal Remains 
 
What is covered: 
 
We will cover the costs associated with the transportation of mortal remains of the Insured Person during 
the Policy Period from the place of death to the home country. In addition, assistance will be provided by Us 
or Our Service Provider for organizing or obtaining the necessary clearances for the repatriation of mortal 
remains. 
 
3.5.1.6. Section Specific Condition 
All the Waiting Periods as specified in Policy Schedule/ Certificate of Insurance shall be applicable 
individually for each Insured Person and claims shall be assessed accordingly. On Renewal, if an enhanced 
Sum Insured is applied for, the Waiting Periods would apply afresh to the extent of the increase in Sum 
Insured only. 
 
We shall not be liable to make any payment under this Policy directly or indirectly for, caused by, based on, 
arising out of or howsoever attributable to any of the following, except if any Insured Person suffers an 
Accident; 
A. Waiting Periods 
 

--- PAGE 57 ---

 
Health Plus   
 
Health Plus         UIN: NBHHLGP22157V032122 
 
 
Internal 
1. Pre-existing Diseases (Code–Excl01):  
a. Expenses related to the treatment of a Pre-existing Disease (PED) and its direct 
complications shall be excluded until the expiry of the number of months (as mentioned in 
Policy Schedule/Certificate of Insurance) of continuous coverage after the date of 
inception of the first Policy with Us. 
b. In case of enhancement of Sum Insured the exclusion shall apply afresh to the extent of 
Sum Insured increase. 
c. If the Insured Person is continuously covered without any break as defined under the 
portability norms of the extant IRDAI (Health Insurance) regulations, then waiting period 
for the same would be reduced to the extent of prior coverage. 
d. Coverage under the Policy after the expiry of number of months (as mentioned in Policy 
Schedule/Certificate of Insurance) for any Pre-existing Disease is subject to the same being 
declared at the time of application and accepted by Us. 
 
2. Specified disease/procedure waiting period (Code- Excl02) 
a. Expenses related to the treatment of the listed conditions, surgeries/treatments shall be 
excluded until the expiry of number of months (as mentioned in Policy 
Schedule/Certificate of Insurance) of continuous coverage after the date of  inception of 
the first Policy with us. This exclusion shall not be applicable for claims arising due to an 
Accident (covered from day 1)or Cancer (covered after 30-day waiting period). 
b. In case of enhancement of Sum Insured  the exclusion shall apply afresh to the extent of 
Sum Insured increase. 
c. If any of the specified disease/procedure falls under the waiting period specified for pre-
Existing diseases, then the longer of the two waiting periods shall apply. 
d. The waiting period for listed conditions shall apply even if contracted after the Policy or 
declared and accepted without a specific exclusion. 
e. If the Insured Person is continuously covered without any break as defined under the 
applicable norms on portability stipulated b y IRDAI then waiting period for the same 
would be reduced to the extent of prior coverage. 
f. List of specific diseases/procedures(Below mentioned diseases/procedures can be 
modified and in that case the list will be mentioned in Policy Schedule/Certificate o f 
Insurance): 
I. Pancreatitis and stones in biliary and urinary system. 
II. Cataract, Glaucoma and other disorders of lens and disorders of retina. 
III. Hyperplasia of prostate, hydrocele and spermatocele. 
IV. Abnormal utero -vaginal bleeding, female genital prolapse, 
endometriosis/adenomyosis, fibroids, PCOD, or any condition requiring d ilation 
and curettage or hysterectomy. 
V. Hemorrhoids, fissure or fistula or abscess of anal and rectal region. 
VI. Hernia of all sites. 
VII. Osteoarthritis, Systemic Connective Tissue disorders, Dorso pathies, 
Spondylopathies, inflammatory Polyarthropathies, Arthrosis such as RA, Gout, 
Intervertebral Disc disorders. 
VIII. Chronic kidney disease and failure. 
IX. Varicose veins of lower extremities. 

--- PAGE 58 ---

 
Health Plus   
 
Health Plus         UIN: NBHHLGP22157V032122 
 
 
Internal 
X. Disease of middle ear and mastoid including Otitis Media, Cholesteatoma, 
Perforation of Tympanic Membrane. 
XI. All internal or external benign or in situ neoplasms/tumours, cyst, sinus, polyp, 
nodules, swelling, mass or lump. 
XII. Ulcer, erosion and varices of upper gastro intestinal tract. 
XIII. Tonsils and adenoids, nasal septum and nasal sinuses. 
XIV. Internal Congenital Anomaly  
 
3. 30 day waiting period (Code- Excl03):  
 
a. Expenses related to the treatment of any Illness within 30 days from the first Policy 
commencement date shall be excluded except claims arising due to an Accident, provided 
the same are covered. 
b. This exclusion shall not, however, apply if the Insured Person has continuous coverage for 
more than twelve months 
c. The within referred waiting period is made applicable to the enhanced Sum Insured in the 
event of granting higher Sum Insured subsequently. 
 
If these diseases are Pre -Existing Diseases at the time of the Proposal or subsequently found to be 
Pre-Existing Diseases, the Pre-Existing Disease Waiting Periods as mentioned in the Policy Schedule/ 
Certificate of Insurance shall apply in respect of that Insured Person. 
 
B. Permanent Exclusions: 
 
A permanent exclusion will be applied on any medical or physical condition or treatment of an Insured 
Person, if specifically mentioned in the Policy Schedule and has been accepted by You. This option as per 
company’s underwriting policy, will be used for such condition(s) or treatment(s) that otherwise would have 
resulted in rejection of insurance coverage under this Policy to such Insured Person. 
 
We shall not be liable to make any payment under this Policy directly or indirectly caused by, based on, 
arising out of or howsoever attributable to any of the following unless specifically mentioned elsewhere in 
the Policy.  
 
I. Investigation & Evaluation (Code-Excl04) 
a. Expenses related to any admission primarily for diagnostics and evaluation purposes only 
are excluded. 
b. Any diagnostic expenses which are not related or not incidental to the current diagnosis 
and treatment are excluded.  
 
II. Rest Cure, rehabilitation and respite care (Code-Excl05) 
Expenses related to any admission primarily for enforced bed rest and not for receiving treatment. 
This also includes: 
a. Custodial care either at home or in a nursing facility for personal care such as help with 
activities of daily living such as bathing, dressing, moving around either by skilled nurses or 
assistant or non-skilled persons.  
b. Any services for people who are terminally ill to address physical, social, emotional and 
spiritual needs. 
 
III. Obesity/ Weight Control (Code-Excl06) 

--- PAGE 59 ---

 
Health Plus   
 
Health Plus         UIN: NBHHLGP22157V032122 
 
 
Internal 
Expenses related to the surgical treatment of obesity that does not fulfil all the below conditions: 
a. Surgery to be conducted is upon the advice of the Doctor. 
b. The surgery/Procedure conducted should be supported by clinical protocols. 
c. The member has to be 18 years of age or older and; 
d. Body Mass Index (BMI); 
I. greater than or equal to 40 or 
II. greater than or equal to 35 in conjunction with any of the following severe co -
morbidities following failure of less invasive methods of weight loss: 
xiii. Obesity-related cardiomyopathy 
xiv. Coronary heart disease  
xv. Severe Sleep Apnea 
xvi. Uncontrolled Type2 Diabetes 
 
IV. Change-of-Gender treatments (Code-Excl07) 
Expenses related to any treatment, including surgical management, to change characteristics of the 
body to those of the opposite sex. 
 
V. Cosmetic or plastic Surgery (Code-Excl08) 
Expenses for cosmetic or plastic surgery or any treatment to change appearance unless for 
reconstruction following an Accident, Burn(s) or Cancer or as part of medically necessary treatment 
to remove a direct and immediate health risk to the insured. For t his to be considered a medical 
necessity, it must be certified by the attending Medical Practitioner. 
 
VI. Excluded Providers (Code-Excl11) 
Expenses incurred towards treatment in any Hospital or by any Medical Practitioner or any other 
provider specifically excluded by Us and disclosed in Our website / notified to the Policyholders are 
not admissible. However, in case of life threatening situations or following an Accident, expenses 
up to the stage of stabilization are payable but not the complete claim. The co mplete list of 
excluded providers can be referred to on our website.  
 
VII. Treatment for, alcoholism, drug or substance abuse or any addictive condition and consequences 
thereof. (Code-Excl12) 
 
VIII. Treatments received in heath hydros , nature cure clinics, spas or similar establishments or private 
beds registered as a nursing home attached to such establishments or where admission is arranged 
wholly or partly for domestic reasons. (Code-Excl13) 
 
IX. Refractive Error (Code-Excl15) 
Expenses related to the treatment for correction of eye sight due to refractive error less than 7.5 
dioptres. 
 
X. Unproven Treatments (Code-Excl16) 
Expenses related to any unproven treatment, services and supplies for or in connection with any 
treatment. Unproven treatments are treatments, procedures or supplies that lack significant 
medical documentation to support their effectiveness. 
 
XI. Sterility and Infertility (Code-Excl17) 
Expenses related to sterility and infertility. This includes: 
a. Any type of contraception, sterilization 
b. Assisted Reproduction services including artificial insemination and advanced reproductive 
technologies such as IVF, ZIFT, GIFT, ICSI 
c. Gestational Surrogacy 

--- PAGE 60 ---

 
Health Plus   
 
Health Plus         UIN: NBHHLGP22157V032122 
 
 
Internal 
d. Reversal of sterilization 
 
XII. Maternity (Code-Excl18) 
a. Medical treatment expenses traceable to childbirth (including complicated deliveries and 
caesarean sections incurred during hospitalization) except ectopic pregnancy;  
b. Expenses towards miscarriage (unless due to an accident) and lawful medical termination 
of pregnancy during the policy period. 
XIII. Circumcision 
Circumcision unless necessary for the treatment of a disease or necessitated by an Accident. 
 
XIV. External Congenital Anomaly:  
Screening, counseling or treatment related to external Congenital Anomaly. 
 
XV. Dental/oral treatment:  
Treatment, procedures and preventive, diagnostic, restorative, cosmetic services related to 
disease, disorder and conditions related to natural teeth and gingiva except if required by an 
Insured Person while Hospitalized due to an Accident. 
 
XVI. Multifocal Lens and ambulatory devices such as walkers, crutches, splints, stockings of any kind and 
also any medical equipment which is subsequently used at home. 
 
XVII. Sexually transmitted Infections & diseases (other than HIV / AIDS):  
Screening, p revention and treatment for sexually related infection or disease (other than HIV / 
AIDS). 
 
XVIII. Sleep disorders:  
Treatment for any conditions related to disturbance of normal sleep patterns or behaviors. 
 
XIX. OPD Treatment 
Any expenses incurred on OPD treatment   
 
XX. Artificial life maintenance:  Artificial life maintenance, including life support machine used to 
sustain a person, who has been declared brain dead, as demonstrated by:  
a. Deep coma and unresponsiveness to all forms of stimulation; or 
b. Absent pupillary light reaction; or 
c. Absent oculovestibular and corneal reflexes; or  
d. Complete apnea. 
 
XXI. Any form of Alternate Treatment:  
a. Ayurvedic, Homeopathic, Unani, Yoga and Siddha streams of treatment; 
b. Hydrotherapy, Acupuncture, Reflexology, Chiropractic Treatment or any other form of 
indigenous system of medicine. 
 
XXII. Unrecognized Physician or Hospital: 
a. Treatment or Medical Advice provided by a Medical Practitioner not recognized by the Medical 
Council of India or by Central Council of Indian Medicine or by Central Council of Homeopathy or by 
relevant authorities in the area where the treatment is taken.  
b. Treatment or Medical Advice related to one system of medicine provided by a Medical 
Practitioner of another system of medicine. 

--- PAGE 61 ---

 
Health Plus   
 
Health Plus         UIN: NBHHLGP22157V032122 
 
 
Internal 
c. Treatment provided by anyone with the same residence as an Insured Person or who is a 
member of the Insured Person’s immediate family or relatives. 
d. Treatment provided by Hospital or health facility that is not recognized by the relevant 
authorities in India or any other country where treatment takes place. 
 
XXIII. Off- label Drug or Treatment:  
Use of pharmaceutical drugs for an unapproved indication or in an unapproved age group, dosage, 
or route of administration as regulated and approved by Central Drugs Standard Control 
Organization (CDSCO) 
 
XXIV. Drugs and Dressings for OPD Treatment or  Take-home Use: Any drugs or surgical dressin gs that 
are provided or prescribed in the case of OPD Treatment, or for an Insured Person to take home on 
leaving Hospital, for any condition, except as included in Post -hospitalization Medical Expenses 
under Section 3.1.1.3. 
 
 
 
3.5.1.7. Claims Process & Requirements: 
 
For Section 3.5.1.1 (Emergency Medical Evacuation) 
 
a. In the event of an Emergency, Our Service Provider shall be contacted immediately on the helpline 
number specified in the Insured Person’s health card.  
b. Our Service Provider will evaluate the necessity for evacuation of the Insured Person and if the 
request for Medical Evacuation is approved, the Service Provider shall pre -authorize the type of 
travel that can be utilized to transport the Insured Person and p rovide information on the Hospital 
that may be approached for medical treatment of the Insured Person.  
c. If the Service Provider pre-authorizes the Medical Evacuation of the Insured Person by means of Air 
Transportation through an air ambulance or commercia l flight whichever is best suited, the Service 
Provider shall also arrange for the same to be provided to the Insured Person unless there are any 
logistical constraints or the medical condition of the Insured Person prevents Emergency Medical 
Evacuation.  
d. It is agreed and understood that We shall  not cover any claims for Reimbursement of the costs 
incurred in the evacuation or transportation of the Insured Person or which are not pre -authorized 
by Our Service Provider. 
 
For Section 3.5.1.2 (Emergency Hospitalization- outside the geographical boundaries of India) 
 
The health card We provide will enable the Insured Person to access medical treatment at any 
Network Provider outside India, but within those regions specified in the Policy Schedule/Certificate of 
Insurance, on a cashless basis only by the production of the card to the Network Provider prior to 
admission, subject to the following: 
i. In the event of an Emergency, the Insured Person or Network Provider shall call Our Service 
Provider immediately, on the helpline number specified in the Insured Person’s health card, 
requesting for a pre-authorization for the medical treatment required. 
ii. Our Service Provider will evaluate the request and the eligibility of the Insured Person und er 
the Policy and call for more information or details, if required. Our Service Provider will 
communicate directly to the Hospital whether the request for pre -authorization has been 
approved or denied. 
iii. If the pre -authorization request is approved, Our Service Provider will directly settle the claim 
with the Hospital. Any additional costs or expenses incurred by or on behalf of the Insured 

--- PAGE 62 ---

 
Health Plus   
 
Health Plus         UIN: NBHHLGP22157V032122 
 
 
Internal 
Person beyond the limits pre -authorized by the Service Provider shall be borne by the Insured 
Person.  
iv. It is agreed and understood that We shall not cover any claims for Reimbursement of the costs 
incurred in relation to the Hospitalization of the Insured Person while inside or outside India or 
any claims which are not pre-authorized by Our Service Provider. 
 
 
For Section 3.5.1.3 (Specified Illness Cover – outside the geographical boundaries of India) 
 
a. In the event of the diagnosis of a Specified Illness, the Insured Person should call Us immediately 
and in any event before the commencement of the travel for treatment overseas on the helpline 
number specified on in the Insured Person’s health card, requesting for a pre -authorization for the 
treatment. 
b. We will  evaluate the request and the e ligibility of the Insured Person’s Policy and call for more 
information or details, if required. 
c. We will communicate directly to the Service Provider and the Insured Person whether the request 
for pre-authorization has been approved or denied. 
d. If the pre-authorization request is approved, Our Service Provider will directly settle the claim 
with the Hospital. Any additional costs or expenses incurred by or on behalf of the Insured 
Person beyond the limits pre -authorized by the Service Provider or at any Non -Network 
Hospital shall be borne by the Insured Person. 
e. This Benefit is available only as Cashless Facility through pre-authorization by Us. 
 
For Section 3.5.1.4 (Medical Repatriation) 
i. In the event of an Insured Person requiring repatriation, Our Service Provider shall be contacted 
immediately on the helpline number specified in the Insured Person’s health card, requesting 
for a pre-authorization for the medical repatriation required. 
ii. Our Service Provider will evaluate the necessity for repatriation of the Insured Person and if the 
request is approved, the Service Provider shall pre -authorize the type of travel that can be 
utilized to transport the Insured Person and provide information on the Hospital that may be 
approached for medical treatment of the Insured Person. 
 
For Section 3.5.1.5 (Repatriation of Mortal Remains) 
i. In the event of an Insured Person requiring repatriation, Our Service Provider shall be contacted 
immediately on the helpline number specified in the Insured Person’s health card, requesting 
for a pre-authorization for Repatriation of Mortal Remains. 
ii. Once the request is approved by Niva Bupa, the Service Provider on behalf of Niva Bupa shall 
pre-authorize the type of travel that can be utilized to transport the mortal remains. 
 
 
3.6. Accidental Cover 
The Benefits offered under this Section shall be available to the Insured Person up to the Accidental Cover 
Sum Insured subject to any specific limits stated in the Policy Schedule/Certificate of Insurance as per the 
eligibility under the opted Benefits. 
 
3.6.1. Coverage Options: 
 
3.6.1.1. Accidental Death (AD) 
 
What is covered: 

--- PAGE 63 ---

 
Health Plus   
 
Health Plus         UIN: NBHHLGP22157V032122 
 
 
Internal 
 
If an Insured Person suffers an Injury solely and directly due to an Accident which occurs during the Policy 
Period and which solely and directly results in the Insured Person’s death within three hundred and sixty 
five (365) days from the date of occurrence of such Accident, We will pay the Accidental Cover Sum Insured 
specified in the Policy Schedule/ Certificate of Insurance. 
 
Conditions: 
a. We will deduct any amounts already paid under Section  3.6.1.2 (Accidental Permanent Total Disability) , 
3.6.1.3(Accidental Permanent Partial Disability)  and 3.6.1.4(Temporary Total Disability)  from the amount 
payable under this Benefit. 
b. We shall not be liable to make any payment under Section3.6.1.1 (Accidental Death) if We have already paid 
or accepted any claims under Section 3.6.1.2 (Accidental Permanent Total Disability)  or 3.6.1.3(Accidental 
Permanent Partial Disability)or 3.6.1.4(Temporary Total Disability) in respect of that Insured Person and the 
total amount paid or payable under those claims is cumulatively greater than or equal to the Sum Insured. 
 
3.6.1.2. Accidental Permanent Total Disability (PTD) 
 
What is covered: 
 
If an Insured Person suffers an Injury solely and directly due to an Accident which occurs during the Policy 
Period and which solely and directly results in the Insured Person’s Permanent Total Disability of the nature 
specified in the grid below,  within three hundred and sixty five (365) days from the date of occurrence of 
such Accident, We will make payment in accordance with the grid below. 
 
Conditions: 
a. The Permanent Total Disability is proved with a disability certificate issued by a Medical Board duly 
constituted by the Central or the State Government being presented to Us;  
b. We will admit a claim under Section 3.6.1.2 only if the Permanent Total Disability continues for a continuous 
period of at least six (6) calendar months from the commencement of the disability and such disability is 
permanent at the end of this period;  
c. If the Insured Person dies before a claim has been admitted under Section 3.6.1.2, We shall not be liable to 
make any payment under Section 3.6.1.2;  
d. We shall not be liable to make payment under Section3.6.1.2 in respect of an Insured Person for any and all 
Policy Periods more than once in the Insured Person’s lifetime;  
e. We will deduct any amounts already paid under Section 3.6.1.3(Accidental Permanent Partial Disability) or 
3.6.1.4(Temporary Total Disability) from the amount payable under this Benefit. 
f. We shall not be liable to make any payment under Section 3.6.1.2 if We have already paid or accepted any 
claims under Section 3.6.1.3 or 3.6.1.4 in respect of that Insured Person and the total amount paid or 
payable under those claims is cumulatively greater than or equal to the Sum Insured. 
 
Nature of Permanent Total Disability 
% of the Accidental 
Cover Sum Insured 
Payable 
Actual loss by physical separation or total and permanent loss of use of 
both hands 100% 
Actual loss by physical separation or total and permanent loss of use 
of both feet 100% 
Loss of sight in both eyes 100% 

--- PAGE 64 ---

 
Health Plus   
 
Health Plus         UIN: NBHHLGP22157V032122 
 
 
Internal 
 
3.6.1.3. Accidental Permanent Partial Disability(PPD) 
 
What is covered: 
 
If an Insured Person suffers an Injury solely and directly due to an Accident which occurs during the Policy 
Period and which solely and directly results in the Insured Person’s Permanent Partial Disability which is of 
the nature specified in the grid below, within three hundred and sixty five (365) days from the date of 
occurrence of such Accident, We will make payment in accordance with the grid below. 
 
Conditions:  
a. The Permanent Partial Disability is prove d with a disability certificate issued by a Medical Board duly 
constituted by the Central or the State Government being presented to Us;  
b. We will admit a claim under Section 3.6.1.3 only if the Permanent Partial Disability continues for a period of 
at least six (6) continuous calendar months from the date of commencement of the disability and such  
disability is continuous and permanent at the end of this period;  
c. If the Insured Person dies before a claim has been admitted under Section 3.6.1.3, We shall not be liable to 
make any payment under Section 3.6.1.3;  
d. If We have admitted a claim under Section 3.6.1.2, then We shall not admit any claim under Section 3.6.1.3 
in respect of the Insured Person;  
e. We will deduct any amounts already paid under Section 3.6.1.3 (Accidental Permanent Partial Disability) and 
3.6.1.4 (Accidental Temporary Total Disability) from the amount payable under this Benefit.  
f. We shall not be liable to make any payment under Section 3.6.1.3(Accidental Permanent Partial Disability) if 
We have already paid or accepted any claims under Section 3.6.1.1 (Accidental Death) or 3.6.1.2 (Accidental 
Permanent Total Disability)  or 3.6.1.4(Accidental Temporary Total Disability) in respect of that Insured 
Person and the total amount paid or payable under those claims is cumulatively greater than or equal to the 
Sum Insured. 
 
Nature of Permanent Partial Disability 
% of Accidental 
Cover Sum 
Insured 
payable 
Total and irreversible loss of hearing in both ears 50% 
Total and irreversible loss of speech 50% 
Actual loss by physical separation or total and permanent loss of use of 
one hand and one foot 100% 
Actual loss by physical separation or total and permanent loss of use of 
one hand and sight in one eye 100% 
Actual loss by physical separation or total and permanent loss of use of 
one foot and sight in one eye 100% 
Loss of speech and loss of hearing in both ears 100% 
Permanent and incurable paralysis of all limbs 100% 
Permanent total loss of mastication 100% 
The Insured Person suffers Injuries which do not fall within any of the 
categories specified above but are such that the Insured Person is 
unlikely to ever be able to physically engage in any occupation or 
employment or business for remuneration or profit. 
100% 

--- PAGE 65 ---

 
Health Plus   
 
Health Plus         UIN: NBHHLGP22157V032122 
 
 
Internal 
Actual loss by physical separation or total and permanent loss of use of one hand 50% 
Actual loss by physical separation or total and permanent loss of use of one foot 50% 
Total and irreversible loss of sight in one eye 50% 
Actual loss by physical separation or total and permanent loss of use of four fingers 
and thumb of one hand 40% 
Actual loss by physical separation or total and permanent loss of use of four fingers 30% 
Total and irreversible loss of hearing in one ear 30% 
Actual loss by physical separation or total and permanent loss of use of thumb and 
index finger of the same hand 25% 
Actual loss by physical separation of all toes 20% 
Actual loss by physical separation or total and permanent loss of use of thumb 15% 
Actual loss by physical separation or total and permanent loss of use of index finger 10% 
Non union of fractured leg or kneecap 10% 
Shortening of leg by at least 5 cm 7.5% 
Actual loss by physical separation or total and permanent loss of use of middle finger 6% 
Actual loss by physical separation or total and permanent loss of use of ring finger 5% 
Actual loss by physical separation or total and permanent loss of use of little finger 4% 
Actual loss by physical separation of great toe (both phalanges) 5% 
Actual loss by physical separation of great toe (one phalanx) 2% 
Actual loss by physical separation of any toes other than the great toe, provided that 
more than one toe is lost 1% each 
Loss of metacarpals - first or second (additional) or third, fourth or fifth (additional) 3% 
 
 
3.6.1.4. Temporary Total Disability (TTD) 
 
What is covered: 
 
If the Insured Person suffers an Injury solely and directly due to an Accident which occurs during the Policy 
Period and which solely and directly results in the Insured Person’s Temporary Total Disability, We will pay 
the lower of the Insured Person’s wee kly earning per week and weekly limit opted for each week that the 
Temporary Total Disability continues, or the amount as specified in the Policy Schedule/Certificate of 
Insurance. 
 
Conditions: 
a. For the purpose of Section 3.6.1.4, “weekly earning” shall not include any overtime, bonuses, tips, 
commissions, allowances or special compensations or any components of variable pay that the Insured 
Person may have otherwise been eligible to receive.  
b. We will make payment under Section3.6.1.4 for only a part of the week if the Insured Person has suffered 
Temporary Total Disability for that part of the week.  
c. We shall not be liable to make any payment under Section 3.6.1.4 in respect of more than 100 continuous 
weeks, subject always to the Accidental Cover Sum Insured.  
d. The amount payable under Section 3.6.1.4 is calculated on a per day basis and shall be payable after 3 
continuous days of temporary disability. 

--- PAGE 66 ---

 
Health Plus   
 
Health Plus         UIN: NBHHLGP22157V032122 
 
 
Internal 
e. We will make payment of the amount due under Section3.6.1.4on a weekly basis unless the Temporary 
Total Disability continues for a continuous period of more than 30 days in which case We will make payment 
of the amount due under Section 3.6.1.4 at the end of every calendar month until the Temporary Total 
Disability ceases.  
f. We will deduct any amounts already paid under Section 3.6.1.3 (Accidental Permanent Partial Disability) and 
3.6.1.4 (Accidental Temporary Total Disability) from the amount payable under this Benefit.  
 
3.6.1.5. Air Accident Death 
 
What is covered: 
 
If the Insured Person suffers an Injury solely and directly due to an Accident occurring whilst travelling by air 
as a fare paying passenger on an aircraft registered to an airline company for the transport of paying 
passengers on regular and published scheduled routes, during the Policy Period which solely and directly 
results in the Insured Person’s death wi thin three hundred and sixty five (365) days from the date of 
occurrence of such Accident, We will make a onetime payment of the amount specified in the Policy 
Schedule/Certificate of Insurance.  
 
Conditions: 
We will deduct any amounts already paid under Section 3.6.1.2 (Accidental Permanent Total Disability) , 3.6.1.3 
(Accidental Permanent Partial Disability)  and 3.6.1.4 (Accidental Temporary Total Disability)  from the amount 
payable under this Benefit. 
 
3.6.1.6. Accidental Medical Reimbursement 
 
Option A 
 
What is covered: 
 
If the Insured Person is Hospitalized solely and directly due to an Injury sustained during the Policy Period, 
We will indemnify the Medical Expenses incurred on Hospitalization during the Policy Period as a result of 
the Injury. 
 
Conditions: 
a. We shall  not be liable to make any payment under this Benefit unless a claim has been admitted under 
Section 3.6.1.1 (Accidental Death)  or Section 3.6.1.2 (Accidental Permanent Total Disability)  or Section 
3.6.1.3 (Accidental Permanent Partial Disability) or 3.6.1.4 (Accidental Temporary Total Disability) 
 
Option B-  
If the Insured Person is Hospitalized solely and directly due to an Injury sustained during the Policy Period, 
We will indemnify the following: 
a. The Medical Expenses incurred on Hospitalization during the Policy Period as a result of the Injury; 
b. The Medical Expenses incurred on OPD Treatment during the Policy Period as a result of the Injury. 
 
Conditions: 
a. We shall not be liable to make any payment under this Benefit unless a claim has been admitted under 
Section 3.6.1.1 (Accidental Death)  or Section 3.6.1.2 (Accidental Permanent Total Disability)  or Section 
3.6.1.3 (Accidental Permanent Partial Disability) or 3.6.1.4 (Accidental Temporary Total Disability) 

--- PAGE 67 ---

 
Health Plus   
 
Health Plus         UIN: NBHHLGP22157V032122 
 
 
Internal 
b. Our maximum, total and cumulative liability to indemnify Medical Expenses incurred on OPD Treatment 
under this Benefit shall be limited to 20% of the Sum Insured for this Benefit. 
 
Option C- 
 
What is covered: 
 
If the Insured Person is Hospitalized solely and directly due to an Injury sustained during the Policy Period, 
We will indemnify the following: 
a. The Medical Expenses incurred on Hospitalization during the Policy Period as a result of the Injury; 
b. The Medical Expenses incurred on OPD Treatment during the Policy Period as a result of the Injury. 
 
Conditions: 
a. Our maximum, total and cumulative liability to indemnify Medical Expenses incurred on OPD Treatment 
under this Benefit shall be limited to 20% of the Sum Insured for this Benefit. 
 
3.6.1.7. Education Allowance for Children 
 
What is covered: 
 
In the event of the Insured Person’s Accidental death or Permanent Total Disability during the Policy Period, 
We will make a onetime payment of the amount specified in the Policy Schedule/Certificate of Insurance for 
the education of the Insured Person’s Dependent Children. 
 
Conditions: 
This Benefit shall be payable only if We have accepted a claim under Section 3.6.1.1 (Accidental Death) or 3.6.1.2 
(Accidental Permanent Total Disability (PTD)). 
 
3.6.1.8. Residential or Vehicle Modification Allowance 
 
What is covered: 
 
In the event of the Insured Person’s Permanent Total Disability, We will reimburse, the expenses incurred up 
to the amount specified in the Policy Schedule/ Certificate of Insurance  towards the modification of 
residential accommodation and the vehicle of the Insured Person to adapt to the altered lifestyle of the 
Insured Person necessitated by the Permanent Total Disability condition.  
 
Conditions: 
This Benefit shall be payable only if We have accepted a claim under Section 3.6.1.2 (Accidental Permanent Total 
Disability (PTD)). 
 
3.6.1.9. Family Transportation Allowance 
 
What is covered: 
 
If an Insured Person suffers an Injury due to an Accident which occurs during the Policy Period that solely 
and directly results in the Insured Person’s Accidental Death or Permanent Total Disability We will indemnify 

--- PAGE 68 ---

 
Health Plus   
 
Health Plus         UIN: NBHHLGP22157V032122 
 
 
Internal 
the expenses incurred in respect of tr avel of one Immediate Family member of the Insured Person to the 
place where the Insured Person is located. 
 
Conditions: 
a. No adult member of the Insured Person’s Immediate Family is present within a distance of at least 150 
kilometers from the place the Insured Person is located. 
b. Our panel confirms that a companion is required.  
c. Expenses can be claimed under this Section on a Reimbursement basis only. 
d. We will reimburse two -way airfare in a licensed common carrier or two -way railway tickets for the 
travel of the companion to the place of Hospitalization of the Insured Person. 
e. We have accepted a claim under Section 3.6.1.1 (Accidental Death) or 3.6.1.2 (Accidental Permanent 
Total Disability (PTD). 
 
For the purpose of this Benefit Immediate Family means any one of the relationships with the Insured 
Person: spouse, father, mother, father -in-law, mother-in-law, brother, sister -in-law, sister, brother -in-law, 
son or daughter. 
 
3.6.1.10. Last rites Expenses 
 
What is covered: 
 
In the event of the Accidental death of the Insured Person during the Policy Period, We will make a onetime 
payment to the Nominee/legal heir of the Insured Person of amount specified in the Policy 
Schedule/Certificate of Insurance towards the funeral expenses of that Insured Person. 
 
Conditions: 
This Benefit shall be payable only if We have accepted a claim under Section 3.6.1.1 (Accidental Death). 
 
3.6.1.11. Broken Bones 
 
What is covered: 
 
If the Insured Person suffers an Injury solely and directly due to an Accident which solely and directly results 
in a fracture of the Insured Person’s bones within thirty (30) days from the date of occurrence of such 
Accident, We will make payment in accordance with the grid below. 
 
Conditions:  
a. We shall not be liable to make any payment under Section 3.6.1.11 unless the fracture is medically 
recognized and a physician has certified in writing the extent and nature of the fracture. 
b. If an Injury results in more than one fracture specified in the grid below, Wewill be liable to pay the 
amount payable for each such fracture, subject to availability of the Broken Bones Sum Insured 
specified in the Policy Schedule/Certificate of Insurance.  
 
Nature of Fracture % of Broken Bones Sum Insured payable 

--- PAGE 69 ---

 
Health Plus   
 
Health Plus         UIN: NBHHLGP22157V032122 
 
 
Internal 
  If treated with surgery under 
anesthesia 
It treated without 
surgery 
Fracture of skull, vertebral column 
(excluding coccyx) 
100% 50% 
Fracture of pelvis, thigh or knee cap 50% 25% 
Fracture of lower leg (excluding small 
bones of hand and foot, fingers and 
toes), ankle, arm or forearm, 
elbow,facial bones 
30% 15% 
Fractures of rib or ribs, nose, collar 
bone, lower jaw, shoulder bone, small 
bones of hand and foot (excluding 
fingers and toes) 
10% 5% 
Fractures of fingers or toes, coccyx 6% 3% 
 
3.6.1.12. Child Wedding 
 
What is covered: 
In the event of the Insured Person’s Accidental Death or Accidental Permanent Total Disability during the 
Policy Period, We will make a onetime payment of the amount specified in the Policy Schedule/Certificate of 
Insurance for the wedding expenses of the Insured Person’s Dependent Children. 
 
Conditions: 
This Benefit shall be payable only if We have accepted a claim under Section 3.6.1.1 (Accidental Death) or 3.6.1.2 
(Accidental Permanent Total Disability (PTD)). 
 
3.6.1.13. Burns 
 
What is covered:  
 
If the Insured Person suffers an Injury solely and directly due to an Accident which solely and directly results 
in second or third degree burns, Wewill make payment in accordance with the grid below. 
 
Conditions: 
a. If the Injury results in more than one of the descriptions in the grid below, then We shall be liable to 
make payment in respect of the largest description only. 
b. If an Insured Person dies or is permanently disabled as the result of the Injury, then any amount claimed 
and paid to an Insured Person under this Section will be deducted from any payment made under 
Section 3.6.1.1 (Accidental Death) or Section 3.6.1.2 (Accidental Permanent Total Disability (PTD)). 
 
Table of Benefits: 
  Description 
%of Burns Sum Insured 
payable 
Head a) Third degree burns of 8% or more of the total head surface area 100% 

--- PAGE 70 ---

 
Health Plus   
 
Health Plus         UIN: NBHHLGP22157V032122 
 
 
Internal 
b) Second degree burns of 8% or more of the total head surface 
area 50% 
c) Third degree burns of 5% or more, but less than 8% of the total 
head surface area 80% 
d) Second degree burns of 5% or more, but less than 8% of the 
total head surface area 40% 
e) Third degree burns of 2% or more, but less than 5% of the total 
head surface area 60% 
f) Second degree burns of 2% or more, but less than 5% of the 
total head surface area 30% 
    
 
Rest of 
Body 
a) Third degree burns of 20% or more of the total body surface 
area 100% 
b) Second degree burns of 20% or more of the total body surface 
area 50% 
c) Third degree burns of 15% or more, but less than 20% of the 
total body surface area 80% 
d) Second degree burns of 15% or more, but less than 20% of the 
total body surface area 40% 
e) Third degree burns of 10% or more, but less than 15% of the 
total body surface area 60% 
f) Second degree burns of 10% or more, but less than 15% of the 
total body surface area 30% 
g) Third degree burns of 5% or more, but less than 10% of the 
total body surface area 20% 
h) Second degree burns of 5% or more, but less than 10% of the 
total body surface area 10% 
 
 
3.6.1.14. Medical Insurance Premium Indemnity 
 
What is covered:  
 
In the event of the Insured Person’s Accidental Death during the Policy Period, We willpay in lumpsum the cost of 
the medical insurance premiums for the Insured Person’s surviving spouse and Dependent Children up to the 
amount stated in the Policy Schedule/Certificate of Insurance per year for up to the number of years stated in the 
Policy Schedule/ Certificate of Insurance. 
 
Conditions: 
 
This Benefit shall be payable only if We have accepted a claim under Section 3.6.1.1 (Accidental Death). 
 
3.6.1.15. Physiotherapy charges following Accidental Injury 
 
What is covered: 

--- PAGE 71 ---

 
Health Plus   
 
Health Plus         UIN: NBHHLGP22157V032122 
 
 
Internal 
 
If the Insured Person suffers an Injury solely and directly due to an Accident during the Policy Period, We will pay 
the Reasonable and Customary Charges  up to limit as specified in the Policy Schedule/ Certificate of Insurance 
incurred on physiotherapy for the Insured Person’s Injury  
Conditions: 
a. This Benefit shall be payable only if We have accepted a claim under Section 3.6.1.2 (Accidental Permanent 
Total Disability (PTD)), 3.6.1.3 (Permanent Partial Disablement (PPD)) or 3.6.1.4 (Total Temporary 
Disablement (TTD)) in respect of the same Injury. 
b. The physiotherapy is Medically Necessary Treatment. 
 
3.6.1.16. Chauffeur Benefit 
 
What is covered: 
 
If the Insured Person suffers an Injury solely and directly due to an Accident during the Policy Period, We will 
indemnify the expenses incurred up to the limit specified in the Policy Schedule/Certificate of Insurance as a 
monthly allowance for the hire of a taxi or chauffeur driven car or other necessarily incurred extra costs to 
maintain the Insured Person’s mobility to meet his/her business commitments. 
 
Conditions: 
a. This Benefit shall be payable only if We have accepted a claim under Section 3.6.1.2 (Accidental Permanent 
Total Disability (PTD)), 3.6.1.3 (Permanent Partial Disablement (PPD)) or 3.6.1.4 (Total Temporary 
Disablement (TTD)) in respect of the same Injury. 
b. We shall not be liable to make any payment under this Benefit in excess of the period specified in the Policy 
Schedule/Certificate of Insurance. 
 
3.6.1.17. Reconstructive Surgery 
 
What is covered: 
 
 If the Insured Person suffers an Injury solely and directly due to an Accident which occurs during the Policy 
Period and which requires Reconstructive Surgery within six (6) months of the date of the Accident, then We 
will pay the actual costs of such Reconstructive Surgery up to the limit specified in the Policy Schedule/ 
Certificate of Insurance.  
 
Conditions: 
 For the purpose of this Benefit the Reconstructive Surgery means surgery to reconstruct cutaneous 
or underlying tissue, prescribed as necessary by a Medical Practitioner. 
 
 The Benefit under this option shall be payable only if the Claim under Section 3.6.1.2 (Accidental 
Permanent Total Disability (PTD))  or 3.6.1.3 (Permanent Partial Disablement (PPD)) is admitted by 
Us. 
 
What is not covered: 
We shall not be liable to make any payment in respect of any Insured Person for: 
 any Reconstructive Surgery not performed by a fully registered and licensed cosmetic surgeon.  
 Any Reconstructive Surgery an Insured Person elects to have. 

--- PAGE 72 ---

 
Health Plus   
 
Health Plus         UIN: NBHHLGP22157V032122 
 
 
Internal 
 
3.6.1.18. Air Ambulance for Accidental Injuries 
 
What is covered: 
 
If the Insured Person suffers an Injury solely and directly due to an Accident which occurs during the Policy 
Period. We will, on a Reimbursement basis, pay the Reasonable and Customary Charges  incurred towards 
transportation of the Insured Person to the nearest Hospital by an air ambulance or to move the Insured 
Person to and from healthcare facilities during an Emergency within India only up to the limit specified in 
the Policy Schedule/Certificate of Insurance. 
 
Conditions: 
i. We have  accepted any claims under Sections 3.6.1.1 (Accidental Death)  or 3.6.1.2 (Accidental 
Permanent Total Disability) in respect of that Insured Person. 
ii. The medical condition of the Insured Person requires immediate ambulance services from the place 
where the Insured Person is injured to a Hospital where appropriate medical treatment can be obtained 
or from the existing Hospital to another Hospital with advanced facilities as advised by the treating 
Medical Practitioner for management of the current Hospitalization. 
iii. This Benefit is available for one transfer per Accident. 
iv. The ambulance service is offered by a healthcare or ambulance Service Provider 
v. The transportation should be provided by medically equipped aircraft which can provide medical care in 
flight and should have  medical equipment's vital to monitoring and treating the Insured Person  
suffering from an Illness/Injury such as but not limited to ventilators, ECG's, monitoring units, CPR 
equipment and stretchers. 
 
3.6.1.19. Comatose Benefit 
 
What is covered: 
 
If the Insured Person suffers an Injury solely and directly due to an Accident which  directly and 
independently of all other causes results in the Insured Person being in a Hospital in a Comatose State, 
within thirty (30) days of the Accident, then We will pay the amount  specified in the Policy Schedule / 
Certificate of Insurance.  
 
Conditions: 
1) The Insured Person must be in the Hospital Intensive Care Unit for the duration of the Comatose State for 
any benefits to be payable. 
2) The comatose state must continue for three (3) months or more for this Benefit to be payable. 
3) Our liability to make payment will be in excess of three (3) months. In case of successive Comatose State 
with less than ten (10) days between each one for a same cause, the Deductible will on ly apply once, as 
the Comatose State will be deemed as one. 
4) The maximum payout of this Benefit will be up to 52 weeks from the Accident. 
 
For the purpose of this Benefit , Comatose State means a state of profound unconsciousness, characterized 
by the absence of spontaneous eye openings, response to painful stimuli, and vocalization. 
 

--- PAGE 73 ---

 
Health Plus   
 
Health Plus         UIN: NBHHLGP22157V032122 
 
 
Internal 
3.6.1.20. Common Accident 
 
What is covered: 
 
If the Insured Person  and his or her spouse sustain Injury in the same Accident during the Policy Period 
which, directly and independently of all other causes, results in the death of both (the Insured Person and 
the spouse) within three sixty five (365) days of the date of the Accident, then We will pay two (2) times the 
Accidental Death Sum Insured applicable to the Insured Person. 
 
Conditions: 
1. The Benefit under this option shall be payable only if a claim under Section 3.6.1.1 (Accidental Death) is 
admitted by Us. 
 
3.6.1.21. Outstanding Loan Cover 
 
What is covered: 
 
If the Insured Person suffers an Injury solely and directly due to an Accident during the Policy Periodwhich 
solely and directly results in Death or Permanent Total Disab ility within three sixty five (365) days of the 
date of the Accident, We will pay the principle outstanding amount of the Insured Person ’s loan as on the 
date of the Accident up to the limit specified in the Policy Schedule/ Certificate of Insurance. 
 
Conditions- 
i. For the purpose of this Benefit the maximum amount payable under this benefit shall be the loan 
amount at the time of the inception of cover of the Insured Person under the Policy. 
ii. In case the Sum Insured under this Benefit is lower that the loan amount at the time of the 
inception of the Policy, We shall  be liable  to pay only a pro -rated proportion of the total loan 
amount in the proportion of the difference between the actual Sum Insured and the required Sum 
Insured as per Clause ‘i’ above to the actual Sum Insured. 
iii. We shall pay only the principal amount that should have been outstanding on the date of claim had 
the Insured Person/s been paying all EMIs in due time as per loan schedule. Any interest, penalty, 
any additional charges levied by the Financer or Lender or any past defaults by the Insured Person 
in payment of EMI including the princip al amount leading to accumulation of the princip al and/or 
the interest are specifically excluded. 
iv. In case an amortization schedule is attached with the Policy, the outstanding principal amount shall 
be calculated as per t he amortization schedule attached with the Policy Schedule/ Certificate of 
Insurance.  
 
3.6.1.22. Section specific Exclusions: 
We shall not be liable to make any payment under this Benefit directly or indirectly for, caused by, based on, 
arising out of or howsoever attributable to any of the following unless specifically mentioned elsewhere in the 
Policy or in Policy Schedule/Certificate of Insurance. 
 
i. Death or any disablement resulting from, caused by, contributed to or aggravated or prolonged by child 
birth or from pregnancy. 

--- PAGE 74 ---

 
Health Plus   
 
Health Plus         UIN: NBHHLGP22157V032122 
 
 
Internal 
ii. Participation in aviation other than as a fare -paying passenger in an aircraft that is authorized by the 
relevant regulations to carry such passengers between established aerodromes. 
iii. Any disability arising out of Pre -Existing Disease if not accepted and endorsed by Us  on the Policy 
Schedule/Certificate of Insurance. 
iv. Body or mental infirmity or any disease except where such condition arises directly due to an Accident 
occurring during the Policy Period. 
v. Death or disability due to mental disorders or disturbances of consciousness, strokes, fits or convulsions 
which affect the entire body and pathological disturbances caused by the mental reaction to the same. 
 
3.6.1.23. Claims Process and Requirements: 
On the occurrence or the discovery of any Illness or Injury that may give rise to a claim under this Policy, then as a 
Condition Precedent to Our liability under the Policy the following procedure shall be complied with. 
 
Claims Procedure: 
a. Written notice of any occurrence which may give rise to a claim under this Policy must be given to Us as soon 
as practicable and in any case within thirty (30) Days after such occurrence. Written notice of claim must be 
given to Us immediately in the case of death, or within thirty (30) Days after the Date of Loss in all other 
cases. 
b. All certificates, information and evidence required by Us shall be furnished at no expense to Us and shall be 
in such form and of such nature as We may prescribe. When required by Us, at its own expense, You/Insured 
Person shall submit to medical examination in respect of any alleged claim that may give rise to a Benefit 
being paid. 
 
Claims Documentation: 
Complete, written proof of loss must be given to Us within sixty (60) Days  after the Date of Loss, or as soon as 
reasonably possible 
a. Accidental Death 
i. Duly filled and signed claim form and Age / identity proof documents 
ii. Copy of Death Certificate (issued by the office of Registrar of Births and Deaths or any other 
authorized legal institution) 
iii. Copy of First Information Report (FIR) /Panchnama, if applicable  
iv. Copy of Medico Legal Certificate duly attested by the concerned Hospital, if applicable. 
v. Copy of Hospital record, if applicable 
vi. Copy of post mortem report wherever applicable 
 
b. Accident Permanent Total Disability 
i. Duly filled and signed claim form and Age / identity proof documents 
ii. Hospital discharge summary (in original) / self attested copies if the originals are submitted with 
another insurer. 
iii. Final Hospital bill (in original) / self attested copies if the originals are submitted with another 
insurer. 
iv. Medical consultations and investigations done from outside the Hospital. 
v. Certificate of Disability issued by a Medical Board duly constituted by the Central and/o r the State 
Government. 
vi. Copy of First Information Report (FIR) / Panchnama if applicable 
vii. Copy of Medico Legal Certificate duly attested by the concerned Hospital, if applicable. 

--- PAGE 75 ---

 
Health Plus   
 
Health Plus         UIN: NBHHLGP22157V032122 
 
 
Internal 
 
c. Accident Permanent Partial Disability 
i. Duly filled and signed claim form and Age / identity proof documents 
ii. Hospital discharge summary (in original) / self attested copies if the originals are submitted with 
another insurer. 
iii. Final Hospital bill (in original) / self attested copies if the originals are submitted with another 
insurer. 
iv. Medical consultations and investigations done from outside the Hospital. 
v. Certificate of Disability issued by a Medical Board duly constituted by the Central and/or the State 
Government. 
vi. Copy of First Information Report (FIR) /Panchnama if applicable 
vii. Copy of Medico Legal Certificate duly attested by the concerned Hospital, if applicable. 
 
d. Accidental Temporary Total Disability 
i. Duly filled and signed claim form  
ii. Hospital discharge summary (in original) / self attested copies if the originals are submitted with another 
insurer. 
iii. Copy of First Information Report (FIR) /Panchnama / Inquest report duly attested by the concerned 
police station 
iv. Copy of Medico Legal Certificate duly attested by the concerned hospital. 
v. Attendance record of employer / Certificate of employer confirming period of absence 
vi. Latest salary certificate with grade and designation 
vii. Newspaper cuttings / news articles covering the Accident(if available) 
 
e. Accidental Medical Expenses  
1. In addition to the docume nts required for the Accidental Death, Accidental Permanent Total Disability, 
Accidental Permanent Partial Disability or Temporary Total Disability Benefits 
2. Final Hospital bill with receipt /copies attested by other insurer if the originals are submitted with them. 
3. Original bills with supporting prescriptions and reports for investigations done outside the Hospital/ 
copies attested by other insurer if the originals are submitted with them. 
4. Original bills with supporting prescriptions for medicines purchased  from outside the Hospital / copies 
attested by other insurer if the originals are submitted with them. 
 
f. Residential Accommodation and Vehicle Modification Allowance 
1. Duly filled and signed claim form 
2. Documents required for Accidental Permanent Total Disability (if not already submitted) 
3. Bills for residential accommodation or vehicle modification. 
4. Narration from architect / civil engineer / affidavit from the customer detailing the modifications done 
to the house. 
5. Narration from vehicle workshop detailing the modifications done. 
 
g. Family Transportation 
1. Duly filled and signed claim form 
2. Documents required for Accidental Death or Accidental Permanent Total Disability  Benefits (if not 
already submitted) 
3. Copy of ticket and invoice 

--- PAGE 76 ---

 
Health Plus   
 
Health Plus         UIN: NBHHLGP22157V032122 
 
 
Internal 
4. Copy of boarding pass (if journey performed by air) 
 
h. Last Rites 
1. Duly filled and signed claim form 
2. Documents required for Accidental Death Benefit (if not already submitted) 
 
i. Broken bones cover 
1. Duly filled and signed claim form 
2. Hospital discharge summary (in original) / self attested copies if the originals are submitted with another 
insurer / consultation notes (if hospitalization has not occurred) 
3. X-Ray and MRI films along with reports 
4. Copy of First Information Report (FIR) /Panchnama  / Inquest report duly attested by the concerned 
police station 
5. Copy of Medico Legal Certificate (MLC) duly attested by the concerned hospital. 
6. Narration of events of Accident if no FIR / MLC available 
7. Newspaper cuttings / news articles covering the Accident (if available) 
 
j. Education Allowance for Children/ Child Wedding: 
1. Duly filled and signed claim form 
2. Documents required for Accidental Death or Accidental Permanent Total Disability  Benefits (if not 
already submitted) 
3. Letter from employer or group administrator confirming the number of children of Insured Person. 
 
Claims Assessment & Repudiation: 
All admissible claims under this Section shall be assessed by Us in the following progressive order:- 
The claim amount assessed as mentioned above would be deducted from the amount mentioned against each 
Benefit and Sum Insured as specified in the Policy Schedule/Certificate of Insurance.  
 
 
3.7. Critical illness Cover: 
 
What is covered: 
 
We will pay the amount specified in the Policy Schedule/Certificate of Insurance if the Insured Person is 
diagnosed with Critical Illness which is part of the selected option (as mentioned in Policy 
Schedule/Certificate of Insurance) during the Policy/Coverage Period or the Critical Illness first manifests 
itself in the Insured Person during the Policy Period. 
 
Conditions: 
a. We shall not be liable to make any payment under this Benefit if the Insured Person does not 
survive the Survival Period specified in the Policy Schedule/Certificate of Insurance.  
b. We will not make payment under this Policy in respect of an Insured Person and for any and all 
Policy Period more than once in the Insured Person’s lifetime. In any Policy Period a claim can be 
triggered for one life only except in co -applicants/ spouse option wherein the claim can be 
triggered for both the lives in the same Policy Period. 
c. The diagnosis of a Critical illness must be verified by a Medical Practitioner. 
d. The list of applicable Critical Illnesses for the Insured Person is provided in the Policy Schedule/ 
Certificate of Insurance. 

--- PAGE 77 ---

 
Health Plus   
 
Health Plus         UIN: NBHHLGP22157V032122 
 
 
Internal 
 
 
3.7.1. For the purpose of Section 3.7, ‘Critical Illness’ means the following Illnesses: 
 
1. Cancer of Specified Severity 
I. A malignant tumor characterized by the uncontrolled growth and spread of malignant cells with 
invasion and destruction of normal tissues. This diagnosis must be supported  by histological 
evidence of malignancy. The term cancer includes leukemia, lymphoma and sarcoma. 
 
II. The following are excluded – 
i. All tumors which are histologically described as carcinoma in situ, benign, pre -malignant, 
borderline malignant, low malignant p otential, neoplasm of unknown behaviour, or non -
invasive, including but not limited to: Carcinoma in situ of breasts, Cervical dysplasia CIN-1, CIN 
-2 and CIN-3. 
ii. Any non-melanoma skin carcinoma unless there is evidence of metastases to lymph nodes or 
beyond; 
iii. Malignant melanoma that has not caused invasion beyond the epidermis; 
iv. All tumors of the prostate unless histologically classified as having a Gleason score greater than 
6 or having progressed to at least clinical TNM classification T2N0M0 
v. All Thyroid cancers histologically classified as T1N0M0 (TNM Classification) or below; 
vi. Chronic lymphocytic leukaemia less than RAI stage 3 
vii. Non-invasive papillary cancer of the bladder histologically described as TaN0M0 or of a lesser 
classification, 
viii. All Gastro-Intestinal Stromal Tumors histologically classified as T1N0M0 (TNM Classification) or 
be low and with mitotic count of less than or equal to 5/50 HPFs; 
ix. All tumors in the presence of HIV infection. 
 
2. Myocardial Infarction - (First Heart Attack of specific severity) 
 
I. The first occurrence of heart attack or myocardial infarction, which means the death of a portion of 
the heart muscle as a result of inadequate blood supply to the relevant area. The diagnosis for 
Myocardial Infarction should be evidenced by all of the following criteria: 
i. A history of typical clinical symptoms consistent with the diagnosis of acute myocardial 
infarction (For e.g. typical chest pain) 
ii. New characteristic electrocardiogram changes 
iii. Elevation of infarction specific enzymes, Troponins or other specific biochemical markers. 
II. The following are excluded: 
i. Other acute Coronary Syndromes 
ii. Any type of angina pectoris 
iii. A rise in cardiac biomarkers or Troponin T or I in absence of overt ischemic heart disease OR 
following an intra-arterial cardiac procedure. 
 
3. Open Chest CABG 
I. The actual undergoing of heart surgery to correct blockage or narrowing in one or more coronary 
artery(s), by coronary artery bypass grafting done via a sternotomy  (cutting through the breast 
bone) or minimally invasive keyhole coronary artery bypass procedures. The diagnosis must be 

--- PAGE 78 ---

 
Health Plus   
 
Health Plus         UIN: NBHHLGP22157V032122 
 
 
Internal 
supported by a coronary angiography and the realization of surgery has to be confirmed by a 
cardiologist. 
II. The following are excluded: 
i. Angioplasty and/or any other intra-arterial procedures 
 
4. Open Heart Replacement or Repair of Heart Valves 
The actual undergoing of open-heart valve surgery is to replace or repair one or more heart valves, 
as a consequence of defects in, abnormalities of, or disease affected cardiac valve(s).  
I. The diagnosis of the valve abnormality must be supported by an echocardiography and the 
realization of surgery has to be confirmed by a specialist Medical Practitioner.  
II. This excludes: 
Catheter based techniques including but not limited to, balloon valvotomy/valvuloplasty are 
excluded. 
5. Coma of Specified Severity 
I. A state of unconsciousness with no reaction or response to external stimuli or internal needs. This 
diagnosis must be supported by evidence of all of the following: 
i. no response to external stimuli continuously for at least 96 hours; 
ii. life support measures are necessary to sustain life; and 
iii. Permanent neurological deficit which must be assessed at least 30 days after the 
onset of the coma. 
II. The condition has to be confirmed by a specialist Medical Practitioner. Coma resulting directly from 
alcohol or drug abuse is excluded. 
 
6. Kidney Failure requiring Regular Dialysis 
I. End stage renal disease presenting as chronic irreversible failure of both kidneys to function, as a 
result of which either regular renal dialysis (haemodialysis or peritoneal dialysis) is instituted or 
renal transplantation is carried out. Diagnosis has to be confirmed by a specialist Medical 
Practitioner 
 
7. Stroke resulting in Permanent Symptoms 
I. Any cerebrovascular incident producing permanent neurological sequelae. This includes infarction 
of brain tissue, thrombosis in an intracranial vessel, haemorrhage and embolisation from an 
extracranial source. Diagnosis has to be conf irmed by a specialist medical practitioner and 
evidenced by typical clinical symptoms as well as typical findings in CT Scan or MRI of the brain. 
Evidence of permanent neurological deficit lasting for at least 3 months has to be produced. 
II. The following are excluded: 
i. Transient ischemic attacks (TIA) 
ii. Traumatic injury of the brain 
iii. Vascular disease affecting only the eye or optic nerve or vestibular functions. 
 
8. Major Organ /Bone Marrow Transplant 
I. The actual undergoing of a transplant of: 
i. One of the following human organs: heart, lung, liver, kidney, pancreas, that resulted from 
irreversible end-stage failure of the relevant organ, or  
ii. Human bone marrow using haematopoietic stem cells. The undergoing of a transplant has to be 
confirmed by a specialist medical practitioner. 

--- PAGE 79 ---

 
Health Plus   
 
Health Plus         UIN: NBHHLGP22157V032122 
 
 
Internal 
 
II. The following are excluded: 
i. Other stem-cell transplants 
ii. Where only islets of langerhans are transplanted 
 
9. Permanent Paralysis of Limbs 
I. Total and irreversible loss of use of two or more limbs as a result of injury or disease of the brain or 
spinal cord. A specialist Medical Practitioner must be of the opinion that the paralysis will be 
permanent with no hope of recovery and must be present for more than 3 months. 
 
10. Motor Neuron Disease with Permanent Symptoms 
I. Motor neuron disease diagnosed by a specialist Medical Practitioner as spinal muscular atrophy, 
progressive bulbar palsy, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis or primary lateral sclerosis. There must be 
progressive degeneration of corticospinal tracts and anterior horn cells or bulbar efferent neurons. 
There must be current significant and permanent functional neurological impairment with 
objective evidence of motor dysfunction that has persisted for a continuous period of at least 3 
months. 
 
11. Multiple Sclerosis with Persisting Symptoms 
I. The unequivocal diagnosis of Definite Multiple Sclerosis confirmed and evidenced by all of the 
following: 
i. investigations including typical MRI findings which unequivocally confirm the diagnosis to be 
multiple sclerosis and 
ii. there mu st be current clinical impairment of motor or sensory function, which must have 
persisted for a continuous period of at least 6 months. 
II. Other causes of neurological damage such as SLE and HIV are excluded. 
 
12. Benign Brain Tumor 
I. Benign brain tumor is defined as a life threatening, non -cancerous tumor in the brain, cranial 
nerves or meninges within the skull. The presence of the underlying tumor must be confirmed by 
imaging studies such as CT scan or MRI. 
II. This brain tumor must result in at least one of the following and must be confirmed by the relevant 
medical specialist. 
i. Permanent Neurological deficit with persisting clinical symptoms for a continuous period 
of at least 90 consecutive days or 
ii. Undergone surgical resection or radiation therapy to treat the brain tumor. 
III. The following conditions are excluded: 
Cysts, Granulomas, malformations in the arteries or veins of the brain, hematomas, abscesses, 
pituitary tumors, tumors of skull bones and tumors of the spinal cord. 
 
13. Blindness 
I. Total, permanent and irreversible loss of all vision in both eyes as a result of Illness or Accident. 
II. The Blindness is evidenced by: 
i. corrected visual acuity being 3/60 or less in both eyes or ; 
ii. the field of vision being less than 10 degrees in both eyes. 

--- PAGE 80 ---

 
Health Plus   
 
Health Plus         UIN: NBHHLGP22157V032122 
 
 
Internal 
III. The diagnosis of blindness must be  confirmed and must not be correctable by aids or surgical 
procedure 
 
14. Deafness 
I. Total and irreversible loss of hearing in both ears as a result of Illness or Accident. This diagnosis 
must be supported by pure tone audiogram test and certified by an Ear, Nos e and Throat (ENT) 
specialist. Total means “the loss of hearing to the extent that the loss is greater than 90decibels 
across all frequencies of hearing” in both ears. 
 
15. End Stage Lung Failure 
I. End stage lung disease, causing chronic respiratory failure, as confirmed and evidenced by all of the 
following: 
i. FEV1 test results consistently less than 1 litre measured on 3 occasions 3 months apart; and 
ii. Requiring continuous permanent supplementary oxygen therapy for hypoxemia; and 
iii. Arterial blood gas analysis with pa rtial oxygen pressure of 55mmHg or less (PaO2 < 55mmHg); 
and 
iv. Dyspnea at rest. 
 
16. End Stage Liver Failure 
I. Permanent and irreversible failure of liver function that has resulted in all three of the following: 
i. Permanent jaundice; and 
ii. Ascites; and 
iii. Hepatic encephalopathy. 
II. Liver failure secondary to drug or alcohol abuse is excluded. 
 
17. Loss of Speech 
I. Total and irrecoverable loss of the ability to speak as a result of injury or disease to the vocal cords. 
The inability to speak must be established  for a continuous period of 12 months. This diagnosis 
must be supported by medical evidence furnished by an Ear, Nose, Throat (ENT) specialist. 
II. All psychiatric related causes are excluded 
 
18. Loss of Limbs 
I. The physical separation of two or more limbs, at or a bove the wrist or ankle level limbs as a result 
of injury or disease. This will include medically necessary amputation necessitated by injury or 
disease. The separation has to be permanent without any chance of surgical correction. Loss of 
Limbs resulting directly or indirectly from self-inflicted injury, alcohol or drug abuse is excluded. 
 
19. Major Head Trauma 
I. Accidental head injury resulting in permanent Neurological deficit to be assessed no sooner than 3 
months from the date of the accident. This diagnosis must be supported by unequivocal findings on 
Magnetic Resonance Imaging, Computerized Tomography, or oth er reliable imaging techniques. 
The Accident must be caused solely and directly by accidental, violent, external and visible means 
and independently of all other causes. 
II. The Accidental Head injury must result in an inability to perform at least three (3) o f the following 
Activities of Daily Living either with or without the use of mechanical equipment, special devices or 
other aids and adaptations in use for disabled persons. For the purpose of this benefit, the word 

--- PAGE 81 ---

 
Health Plus   
 
Health Plus         UIN: NBHHLGP22157V032122 
 
 
Internal 
“permanent” shall mean beyond the scope of recovery with current medical knowledge and 
technology. 
III. The Activities of Daily Living are: 
i. Washing: the ability to wash in the bath or shower (including getting into and out of the 
bath or shower) or wash satisfactorily by other means; 
ii. Dressing: the ab ility to put on, take off, secure and unfasten all garments and, as 
appropriate, any braces, artificial limbs or other surgical appliances; 
iii. Transferring: the ability to move from a bed to an upright chair or wheelchair and vice 
versa; 
iv. Mobility: the ability to move indoors from room to room on level surfaces; 
v. Toileting: the ability to use the lavatory or otherwise manage bowel and bladder functions 
so as to maintain a satisfactory level of personal hygiene; 
vi. Feeding: the ability to feed oneself once food has been prepared and made available. 
IV. The following are excluded: 
i. Spinal cord injury; 
 
20. Primary (Idiopathic) Pulmonary Hypertension 
I. An unequivocal diagnosis of Primary (Idiopathic) Pulmonary Hypertension by a Cardiologist or 
specialist in respiratory medicine with evidence of right ventricular enlargement and the pulmonary 
artery pressure above 30 mm of Hg on Cardiac Cauterization. There must be permanent irreversible 
physical impairment to the degree of at least Class IV of the New York Heart Association 
Classification of cardiac impairment. 
II. The NYHA Classification of Cardiac Impairment are as follows: 
i. Class III: Marked limitation of physical activity. Comfortable at rest, but less than ordinary 
activity causes symptoms. 
ii. Class IV: Unable to engage in any physic al activity without discomfort. Symptoms may be 
present even at rest. 
III. Pulmonary hypertension associated with lung disease, chronic hypoventilation, pulmonary 
thromboembolic disease, drugs and toxins, diseases of the left side of the heart, congenital heart  
disease and any secondary cause are specifically excluded. 
 
21. Third Degree Burns 
I. There must be third-degree burns with scarring that cover at least 20% of the body’s surface area. 
The diagnosis must confirm the total area involved using standardized, clinic ally accepted, body 
surface area charts covering 20% of the body surface area. 
 
22. Fulminant Viral Hepatitis 
I. A sub-massive to massive necrosis of the liver by any virus, leading precipitously to liver failure.  
This diagnosis must be supported by all of the following:  
i. rapid decreasing of liver size as confirmed by abdominal ultrasound ; and 
ii. necrosis involving entire lobules, leaving only a collapsed reticular framework (histological 
evidence is  required) ; and 
iii. rapid deterioration of liver function tests; and 
iv. deepening jaundice; and  
v. hepatic encephalopathy.  
II. This excludes: 

--- PAGE 82 ---

 
Health Plus   
 
Health Plus         UIN: NBHHLGP22157V032122 
 
 
Internal 
i. Hepatitis infection or carrier status alone does not meet the diagnostic criteria. 
ii. Fulminant Viral Hepatitis caused by alcohol, toxic substance or drug. 
 
23. Aplastic Anaemia 
I. Aplastic Anaemia is chronic persistent bone marrow failure. A certified hematologist must make 
the diagnosis of severe irreversible aplastic anaemia. There must be permanent bone marrow 
failure resulting in bone marrow cellularity of less than 25% and ther e must be two of the 
following:  
i. Absolute neutrophil count of less than 500/mm³  
ii. Platelets count less than 20,000/mm³ 
iii. Reticulocyte count of less than 20,000/mm³  
 
The Insured Person must be receiving treatment for more than 3  consecutive months with frequent blood 
product transfusions, bone marrow stimulating agents, or immunosuppressive agents or the Insured Person 
has received a bone marrow or cord blood stem cell transplant. Temporary or reversible Aplastic Anaemia is 
excluded and not covered under this Policy 
 
24. Muscular Dystrophy 
I. A group of hereditary degenerative diseases of muscle characterised by weakness and atrophy of 
muscle based on three (3) out of four (4) of the following conditions: 
 
1. Family history of other affected individuals; 
2. Clinical presentation including absence of sensory disturbance, normal cerebro-spinal fluid and 
mild tendon reflex reduction; 
3. Characteristic electromyogram; or 
4. Clinical suspicion confirmed by muscle biopsy. 
 
II. The diagnosis of muscular dystrophy must be unequivocal and made by a consultant neurologist. 
III. The condition must result in the inability of the Life Insured to perform (whether aided or unaided) 
at least 3 of the following   6 “Activities of Daily Living” for a continuous period of at least 6 months. 
 
Activities of Daily Living are defined as:  
a. Washing  :  the ability to maintain an adequate level of cleanliness and personal hygiene 
b. Dressing : the ability t o put on and take off all necessary garments, artificial limbs or other     
surgical appliances that are Medically Necessary 
c. Feeding : the ability to transfer food from a plate or bowl to the mouth once food has been 
prepared and made available 
d. Toileting : the ability to manage bowel and bladder function, maintaining an adequate and socially 
acceptable level of hygiene 
e. Mobility : the ability to move indoors from room to room on level surfaces at the normal place of 
residence 
f. Transferring: the ability to mov e from a lying position in a bed to a sitting position in an upright 
chair or wheel chair and vice versa 
 
25. Bacterial Meningitis 

--- PAGE 83 ---

 
Health Plus   
 
Health Plus         UIN: NBHHLGP22157V032122 
 
 
Internal 
Bacterial infection resulting in inflammation of the membranes of the brain or spinal cord resulting in 
significant, irreversible and permanent neurological deficit.   
I. The neurological deficit must persist for at least 3 months.  
II.  This diagnosis must be confirmed by: 
III. The presence of bacterial infection in cerebrospinal fluid by lumbar puncture; and  
IV. A consultant neurologist.  
V. This excludes: 
Bacterial Meningitis in the presence of HIV infection is excluded. 
 
26. Abdominal Aortic Aneurysm 
The actual undergoing of surgery for abdominal aortic aneurysm, needing excision and surgical replacement 
of the diseased part of the aorta with a graft.  
 
i. The term “aorta” means the thoracic and abdominal aorta but not its branches. 
ii. A cardiologist must confirm the diagnosis and realization of surgery  
iii. Surgery performed using only minimally invasive or intra-arterial techniques are excluded. 
 
27. Pneumonectomy 
The undergoing of surgery on the advice of a consultant medical specialist to remove an entire lung due to 
any physical injury or disease.  
I. The following conditions are excluded: 
i. Removal of a lobe of the lungs (lobectomy) 
ii. Lung resection or incision 
 
28. Apallic Syndrome 
Universal necrosis of the brain cortex with the brainstem remaining intact.  
I. The Diagnosis must be definitely confirmed by a Registered Medical Practitioner, who is also a 
Neurologist holding such an appointment at an approved hospital.  
II. This condition must be documented for at least 30 days with no hope of recovery. 
 
29. Aortic Dissection 
The actual undergoing of surgery for aortic dissection, needing excision and surgical replacement of the 
diseased part of the aorta with a graft.  
I. The term “aorta” means the thoracic and abdominal aorta but not its branches.  
II. A cardiologist must confirm the diagnosis and realization of surgery. 
III. This excludes: 
i. Surgery performed using only minimally invasive or intra-arterial techniques are excluded 
 
30. Severe Rheumatoid Arthritis 
The unequivocal diagnosis of Severe Rheumatoid Arthritis with all of the following factors: 
I. Is in accordance with the criteria on Rheumatoid Arthritis of the American College of Rheumatology 
and has been diagnosed by the Rheumatologist. 
II. At least 3 joints are damaged or deformed such as finger joint, wrist, elbow, knee joint, hip joint, ankles, 
cervical spine or feet toe joint as confirmed by clinical and radiological evidence and cannot perform at 
least 3 types of daily routines permanently for at least 180 days. 
 
31. Progressive Scleroderma 
A systemic collagen -vascular disease causing progressive diffuse fibrosis in the skin, blood vessels and 
visceral organs.  

--- PAGE 84 ---

 
Health Plus   
 
Health Plus         UIN: NBHHLGP22157V032122 
 
 
Internal 
I. This diagnosis must be unequivocally supported  by biopsy and serological evidence and the 
disorder must have reached systemic proportions to involve the heart, lungs or kidneys. 
II. The following conditions are excluded: Localized scleroderma (linear scleroderma or morphea); 
Eosinophilic fasciitis; and CREST syndrome. 
 
32. Loss of Independent Existence 
Loss of Independent Existence Confirmation by a Consultant Physician of the loss of independent existence 
due to illness or trauma, lasting for a minimum period of 6 months and resulting in a permanent inability to 
perform at least three (3) of the following Activities of Daily Living activities either with or without the use of 
mechanical equipment, special devices or other aids and adaptations in use for disabled persons. For the 
purpose of this benefit, the wo rd “permanent”, shall mean beyond the scope of recovery with current 
medical knowledge and technology. 
 
Activities of Daily Living : 
1. Washing: the ability to wash in the bath or shower (including getting into and out of the bath or 
shower) or wash satisfactorily by other means; 
2. Dressing: the ability to put on, take off, secure and unfasten all garments and, as appropriate, any 
braces, artificial limbs or other surgical appliances; 
3. Transferring: the ability to move from a bed to an upright chair or wheelchair and vice versa; 
4. Mobility: the ability to move indoors from room to room on level surfaces; 
5. Toileting: the ability to use the lavatory or otherwise manage bowel and bladder functions so as to 
maintain a satisfactory level of personal hygiene; 
6. Feeding: the ability to feed oneself once food has been prepared and made available. 
 
33. Systematic Lupus Erythematosus with Renal Involvement 
I. Multi-system, autoimmuno disorder characterized by the development of auto-antibodies, directed 
against various self-antigens. For purposes of the definition of “Critical Illness”, SLE is restricted to 
only those forms of systemic lupus erythematosus, which involve the kidneys and are characterized 
as Class III, Class IV, Class V or Class VI lupus nephritis under the Ab breviated International Society 
of Nephrology/Renal Pathology Society (ISN/RPS) classification of lupus nephritis (2003) below 
based on renal biopsy. There must be positive antinuclear antibody test.  
 
II. Other forms such as discoid lupus, and those forms wit h only hematological and joint involvement 
are specifically excluded. 
 
Abbreviated ISN/RPS classification of lupus nephritis (2003): 
Class I - Minimal mesangial lupus nephritis 
Class II - Mesangial proliferative lupus nephritis 
Class III - Focal lupus nephritis 
Class IV - Diffuse segmental (IV-S) or global (IV-G) lupus nephritis 
Class V - Membranous lupus nephritis 
ClassVI - Advanced sclerosis lupus nephritis the final diagnosis must be confirmed by a    certified doctor 
specializing in Rheumatology and Immunology 
 
34. Parkinson’s Disease 
I. The unequivocal diagnosis of progressive degenerative primary idiopathic Parkinson’s disease (all 
other forms of Parkinsonism are excluded) made by a consultant neurologist.  
II. This diagnosis must be supported by all of the following conditions:  
• The disease cannot be controlled with medication; and 
• Objective signs of progressive impairment; and  
• There is an in ability of the Life assured to perform (whether aided or unaided) at le ast 3 of the 
following 6 “Activities of Daily Living” for a continuous period of at least  6months.  

--- PAGE 85 ---

 
Health Plus   
 
Health Plus         UIN: NBHHLGP22157V032122 
 
 
Internal 
 
The Activities of Daily Living are:  
1. Washing: the ability to wash in the bath or shower (including getting into and out of the bath or 
shower) or wash satisfactorily by other means;  
2. Dressing: the ability to put on, take off, secure and unfasten all garments and, as appropriate, 
any braces, artificial limbs or other surgical appliances;  
3. Transferring: the ability to move from a bed to an upright chair or wheelchair and vice versa;  
4. Mobility: the ability to move indoors from room to room on level surfaces;  
5. Toileting: the ability to use the lavatory or otherwise manage bowel and bladder functions so as 
to maintain a satisfactory level of personal hygiene;  
6. Feeding: the ability to feed oneself once food has been prepared and made available  
 
Section i(c) of Specific Exclusions shall not apply to the extent this condition is applicable 
 
III. The following is excluded : 
a. Drug-induced or toxic causes of Parkinsonism are excluded. 
 
35. Alzheimer's Disease 
 
I. Progressive and permanent deterioration of memory and intellectual capacity as evidenced by 
accepted standardised questionnaires and cerebral imaging.  
II. The diagnosis of Alzheimer’s disease must be confirmed by an appropriate consultant and 
supported by the Company’s appointed doctor.  
III. There must be significant reduction in mental and social functioning requiring the continuous 
supervision of the life assured.  
IV. There must also be an inability of the Life Assured to perform (whether aided or unaided) at least 3 
of the following 6 “Activities of Daily Living” for a continuous period of at least 3  months: 
 
Activities of Daily Living are defined as: 
1. Washing – the ability to wash in the bath or shower (including getting into and out of the bath 
or shower) or wash satisfactorily by other means; 
2. Dressing – the ability to put on, take off, secure and unfasten all garments and, as appropriate, 
any braces, artificial limbs or other surgical appliances; 
3. Transferring – the ability to move from a bed to an upright chair or wheelchair and vice versa; 
4. Toileting – the ability to use the lavatory or otherwise manage bowel and bladder functions so 
as to maintain a satisfactory level of personal hygiene; 
5. Feeding – the ability to feed oneself once food has been prepared and made available. 
6. Mobility - the ability to move from room to room without requiring any physical assistance. 
 
V. The following are excluded:  
a. Any other type of irreversible organic disorder/dementia 
b. Non-organic disease such as neurosis and psychiatric illnesses; and 
c. Alcohol-related brain damage. 
 
Section i(c) of Specific Exclusions shall not apply to the extent this condition is applicable 
 
36. Uterine Rupture 
 
A (spontaneous ) full -thickness disruption of the uterine wall that also involves the overlying visceral 
peritoneum which results in clinically significant uterine bleeding  and expulsion of uterine content into 
abdominal cavity,  (also in pregnant  wome n  associated fetal distress) and requires a prompt cesarean 
delivery or uterine repair or hysterectomy. 

--- PAGE 86 ---

 
Health Plus   
 
Health Plus         UIN: NBHHLGP22157V032122 
 
 
Internal 
I. A waiting period of 10 months is applicable for this Illness. 
II. This excludes uterine scar rupture caused due to a preexisting scarred Uterus due to previous LSCS 
or any other uterine surgery that is before the inception of the Policy. 
 
Section vii (e) of Specific Exclusions shall not apply to the extent this benefit is applicable 
 
37. Uterine inversion 
The actual surgery for the treatment of uterine inversion in which the corpus (body of uterus) turns 
inside out and protrudes into the vagina or beyond the introitu s , as a result of  cause of excessive 
pressure on the fundus during delivery of the placenta, a flaccid uterus, or placenta accreta 
(abnormally adherent placenta) . 
i. The diagnosis and requirement of surgery  must be confirmed medically necessary  clinically by 
a registered obstetrician 
ii. This benefit shall be available only as onetime benefit 
iii. A waiting period of 10 months is applicable for this Illness. 
 
Section vii (e) of Specific Exclusions shall not apply to the extent this benefit is applicable. 
 
 
38. Medullary Cystic Kidney Disease 
Medullary Cystic Kidney Disease where the following criteria are met: 
I. the presence in the kidney of multiple cysts in the renal medulla accompanied by the presence of 
tubular atrophy and interstitial fibrosis; 
II. clinical manifestations of anaemia, polyuria, renal loss of sodium progressing to  deterioration in 
kidney function; and 
III. the Diagnosis of Medullary Cystic Disease is confirmed by renal biopsy. 
IV. This excludes: 
i. Isolated or benign kidney cysts. 
 
39. Pituitary apoplexy in pregnancy 
Pituitary apoplexy in pregnancy is abrupt destruction of pituitary tissue resulting from infarction or 
hemorrhage into the pituitary in women without any pre -existing pituitary lesion but where the pituitary is 
physiologically enlarged as a result of pregnancy.  
The realization of the diagnosis must be established by a registered neurosurgeon or neurologist with 
investigations including but not limited to MRI scan of the brain. 
I. This include treatment surgical and/or medical treatment under registe red medical 
practitioner and neurosurgeon 
II. A waiting period of 10 months is applicable for this Illness 
 
Section vii (e) of  Specific Exclusions shall not apply to the extent this Benefit is applicable 
 
40. Cardiomyopathy including Peripartum and postpartum Cardiomyopathy 
I. An impaired function of the heart muscle, unequivocally diagnosed as Cardiomyopathy by a 
Registered Medical Practitioner who is a cardiologist, and which results in permanent physical 
impairment to the degree of New York Heart Association classification Class IV or its equivalent, for 
at least six (6) months based on the following classification criteria: 
 
Class IV - Inability to carry out any activity without discomfort. Symptoms of congestive cardiac 
failure are present even at rest. With any increase in physical activity, discomfort will be 
experienced.  
II. The Diagnosis of Cardiomyopathy has to be supported by echographic findings of compromised 
ventricular performance.  

--- PAGE 87 ---

 
Health Plus   
 
Health Plus         UIN: NBHHLGP22157V032122 
 
 
Internal 
III. A waiting period of 10 months is applicable for this Illness if it is related to Maternity 
IV. The following is excluded: 
I. Cardiomyopathy directly related to alcohol or drug abuse is excluded. 
 
Section vii (e) of Specific Exclusions shall not apply to the extent this Benefit is applicable 
 
41. Nephrotic Syndrome 
I. Nephrotic syndrome is the onset of heavy proteinuria (>3.0 g/24 h), hypertension, 
hypercholesterolemia, hypoalbuminemia, edema/anasarca, and microscopic hematuria. 
 
II. A confirmed diagnosis of glomerulonephritis with nephrotic  syndrome must be made by an 
appropriate Medical Practitioner along with relevant reports and should confirm  a treatment 
regimen appropriate to the clinical presentation has been followed throughout the period to which 
syndrome relates.  
 
III. The syndrome mus t have continued for a period of at least 6 months from the date of confirmed 
diagnosis with or without intervening periods of remission. 
 
3.7.2. Benefits Options under Section 3.7: 
 
3.7.2.1. Sum Insured Enhancement 
 
What is covered: 
In consideration of additional premium received from You/Insured Person , it is hereby 
understood and agreed that, the Critical illness Sum Insured mentioned in the Policy Schedule/ 
Certificate of Insurance shall be increased automatically per annum by the percentage chosen, by 
the Insured Person and accepted by Us  and mentioned in the Policy Schedule/ Certificate of 
Insurance. It is hereb y clarified that the increase every time would be computed on the Critical 
illness Sum Insured at which the cover under the Policy had been issued the first time and not the 
increased Sum Insured in years succeeding the first year of cover under the Policy. 
 
Conditions:  
a. The Sum Insured shall be increased by a flat percentage for every completed Policy Year. 
b. At Renewal the Insured Person shall have an option to revise the Sum Insured by sending in 
writing the request for such Sum Insured revision. Any revision to Sum Insured shall always 
be subject to due underwriting by Us and acceptance of risk by Us in writing. 
 
3.7.2.2. Loan Protector 
What is covered: 
 
Subject to Us accepting Our liability for a claim in respect of the Insured Person under Section 
3.7.1 of this Policy and in consideration of additional premium received from You/Insured Person 
at the time of issuance of the Policy, it is hereby understood and agreed that We shall, in addition 
to the Sum Insured for the Insured Person also pay any one of the following two amounts 
whichever is lesser: 
 
1. The principal outstanding amount of the Insured Person’s loan on the date of occurrence of 
the event giving rise to the claim in case of only one Insured Person being covered or 50% of 

--- PAGE 88 ---

 
Health Plus   
 
Health Plus         UIN: NBHHLGP22157V032122 
 
 
Internal 
the principal outstanding amount in case of two Insured Persons being covered under the 
same Certificate of Insurance. 
2. 100% of the Base Sum Insured for that Insured Person mentioned i n the Certificate of 
Insurance 
 
Conditions: 
The payout of the Loan Protector amount mentioned above shall be subject to all the following;  
 We shall pay only the princip al amount that should have been outstanding on the date of 
claim had the Insured Person/s been paying all EMIs in due time as per loan schedule. Any 
interest, penalty, any additional charges levied by the Financer or Lender or any past defaults 
by the Insured Person  in payment of EMI including the princip al amount leading to 
accumulation of the principal and/or the interest are specifically excluded. 
 In case an amortization schedule is attached with the Policy Schedule/Certificate of Insurance, 
the outstanding princi pal amount shall be calculated as per the amortization schedule 
attached with the Policy Schedule/Certificate of Insurance.  
 
The Insured Person is required to submit the latest statement of loan account duly certified by 
the Financer/Lender along with all  other documents required for claim assessment under 
Critical Illness cover  
 
3.7.2.3. Income Protector 
 
What is covered: 
 
Subject to Us accepting Our liabilityfor a claim in respect of the Insured Person under Section 
3.7.1 of this Policy and in consideration of additional premium received from You/Insured Person 
at the time of issuance of the Policy, it is hereby understood and agreed that in the event of 
Insured Person losing his job due to Critical Illness covered under this Section We shall, in addition 
to the Critical illness Sum Insured also pay the amount as prescribed in the Policy Schedule/ 
Certificate of Insurance up to the specified number of months as specified in Po licy Schedule/ 
Certificate of Insurance as income to the Insured Person. 
 
Conditions: 
 For eligibility under this cover the job of the Insured Person must be permanent and not 
temporary or casual or seasonal or contractual or off roll and the Insured Person  must be 
employed in that permanent job at the time of inception of the cover under the Policy and 90 
days immediately following thereafter within the Policy/Coverage Period including the day of 
inception of the Policy.  
 You/Insured Person has to provide all the documentary evidence of such loss of job 
 We shall, in case it deems fit to do so, shall have the discretion to even pay all the specified 
monthly income benefits as mentioned in the Policy Schedule/ Certificate of Insurance in 
lumpsum instead of monthly. 
 
What is not covered: 
 We shall not be liable to make any payment under this Section in event the Insured Person 
unemployment is a consequence of his termination, dismissal, suspension because of his 

--- PAGE 89 ---

 
Health Plus   
 
Health Plus         UIN: NBHHLGP22157V032122 
 
 
Internal 
involvement in any act of dishones ty and/or fraud and/or poor performance on the part of 
the Insured Person and/or his willful violation of any rules of the employer and/or laws for 
the time being in force and/or any disciplinary action against him by the employer. 
 We shall not be liable to make any payment under this Section: 
o If the Insured Person is a self employed person during the entire Policy Period; 
o During the entire Policy Period/ Coverage Period in case of any claim relating to 
unemployment from such job which is casual, temporary,  seasonal or contractual in 
nature or any claim relating to an employee not on the direct rolls of the employer; 
o In case of voluntary unemployment due to resignation during the entire Policy Period; 
o In case of unemployment at the time of inception of the Policy/Coverage Period or 
unemployment arising within the first 90 days of inception of the Policy Period/ 
Coverage Period for any reason whatsoever including without limitation even if the 
Insured Person suffers Critical Illness. 
o In case of unemployment du ring the entire Policy Period/ Coverage Period from a job 
under which no salary or any remuneration is provided to the Insured Person 
o In case of suspension from employment on account of any pending enquiry being 
conducted by the employer/ public authority. 
o In case of unemployment during the entire  Policy Period/ Coverage Period due to 
retirement whether voluntary or otherwise. 
 
In case of any unemployment during the entire Policy Period/ Coverage Period due to non -
confirmation of employment after or during such period under which the Insured Person was 
under probation. 
 
3.7.2.4. Staggered Payout 
 
What is covered: 
 
Subject to Us accepting Our liability against the claim under section 3 .7.1 of this Policy and in 
consideration of additional premium received from You/Insured Person , not withstanding 
anything contrary contained in the Policy, it is hereby understood and agreed that, in the event of 
claim We, in addition to Sum Insured for the Insured Person as mentioned in the Policy Schedule/ 
Certificate of Insurance shall also pay equal to 10% of the Sum Insured per annum for next 5 
years. This is the staggered payout which shall be calculated on the Insured Person’s Critical 
illness Sum Insured or on the increased sum insured if the Sum Insured Enhancement option is 
opted for. 
 
Conditions: 
Claim under this cover will be payable only when the claim under Section 3.7.1 under this Policy is 
payable. 
 
3.7.2.5. Death Benefit 
 
What is covered: 
 

--- PAGE 90 ---

 
Health Plus   
 
Health Plus         UIN: NBHHLGP22157V032122 
 
 
Internal 
In the event of the Insured Person dies within the Survival period specified in the Policy Schedule/ 
Certificate of Insurance due to Critical  Illness covered under Section 3 .7.1 of this Policy, We shall 
pay in lumpsum the amount as prescribed in the Policy Schedule/ Certificate of Insurance to the 
nominee/ legal heir/s of the Insured Person as Death Benefit. In this case Our total liability under 
Section 3.7.1 shall be limited only to the limit specified in the Policy Schedule/ Certificate of 
Insurance as Death Benefit. 
 
3.7.2.6. Second Medical Opinion for Critical Illness 
 
What is covered: 
 
If the Insured Person is diagnosed with a Critical Illness as defined under Section 3.7.1 or is 
planning to undergo a planned Surgery or a Surgical Procedure for that Critical Illness, the Insured 
Person can, at the Insured Person’s choice, obtain a Second Medical Opinion from a Medical 
Practitioner arranged by Us: 
 
a. We/ Our Service Provider are contacted seeking the Second Medical Opinion. 
b. The Second Medical Opinion will be arranged by Us or Our Service Provider and will be based 
only on the information and documentation provided by the Insured Person that will be 
shared with the Medical Practitioner. 
c. This Benefit can be availed only once by an Insured Person during a Policy Year/ Coverage 
Period for the same Critical Illness or planned Surgery. 
d. By seeking the Second Medical Opinion under this Benefit  the Insured Person is not 
prohibited or advised against visiting or consulting with any other independent Medical 
Practitioner or commencing or continuing any treatment advised by such Medical 
Practitioner. 
e. The Insured Person is free to choose whether or not to obtain the Second Medical Opinion, 
and if obtained then whether or not to act on it in whole or in part. 
f. The Second Medical Opinion under this Benefit shall be limited to defined criteria and not be 
valid for any medico legal purposes. 
 
We do not as sume any liability and shall not be deemed to assume any liability towards any loss or 
damage arising out of or in relation to any opinion, advice, prescription, actual or alleged errors, 
omissions and representations made by the Medical Practitioner. 
 
3.7.2.7. Waiting Period Options under Section 3.7: 
 
All the Waiting Periods as specified in Policy Schedule/ Certificate of Insurance shall be applicable 
individually for each Insured Person and claims shall be assessed accordingly. On Renewal, if an enhanced 
Sum Insured is applied for, the Waiting Periods would apply afresh to the extent of the increase in Sum 
Insured only. 
 
We shall not be liable to make any payment under this Policy directly or indirectly for, caused by, based 
on, arising out of or howsoever attributable to any of the following, except if any Insured Person suffers 
an Accident; 
 
A. Waiting Periods 

--- PAGE 91 ---

 
Health Plus   
 
Health Plus         UIN: NBHHLGP22157V032122 
 
 
Internal 
 
(i) Pre-existing Diseases (Code–Excl01):  
a. Expenses related to the treatment of a Pre-existing Disease (PED) and its direct 
complications shall be excluded until the expiry of the number of months (as 
mentioned in Policy Schedule/Certificate of Insurance) of continuous coverage after 
the date of inception of the first Policy with Us. 
b. In case of enhancement of Sum Insured, the exclusion shall apply afresh to the extent 
of Sum Insured increase. 
c. If the Insured Person is continuously covered without any break as defined under the 
portability norms of the extant IRDAI (Health Insurance) regulations, then waiting 
period for the same would be reduced to the extent of prior coverage. 
d. Coverage under the Policy after the expiry of number of months (as mentioned in 
Policy Schedule/Certificate of Insurance) for any Pre-existing Disease is subject to the 
same being declared at the time of application and accepted by Us. 
 
(ii) Survival Period 
The payment of the Benefit shall be subject t o survival of the Insured Person for the duration 
specified in Policy Schedule/ Certificate of Insurance post the first diagnosis of the Critical Illness 
a. The Critical Illness cover is not applicable in  the event of Death of Insured Person during the 
Survival Period as specified in Policy Schedule/ Certificate of Insurance following diagnosis of 
Critical Illness 
b. If diagnosis takes place on or before the Policy/ Coverage expiry date, but the Survival Period 
expires after the Policy/ Coverage end date, We will pay a claim provided that the Insured 
Person survives duration as specified in Policy Schedule/ Certificate of Insurance from the 
date of diagnosis. 
 
(iii) Initial waiting period:  
 
a. A Waiting Period since b eginning of cover under the First Policy, specified in the Policy 
Schedule/ Certificate of Insurance shall apply to any Illness contracted and/or Medical 
Expenses incurred in respect of any Illness by the Insured Person other than 
Hospitalization due to Accident. 
b. This exclusion shall not, however, apply if the Insured Person has continuous coverage 
for more than twelve months 
c. The within referred waiting period is made applicable to the enhanced Sum Insured in 
the event of granting higher Sum Insured subsequently. 
 
If these diseases are Pre-Existing Diseases at the time of the Proposal or subsequently found to be 
Pre-Existing Diseases, the Pre -Existing Disease Waiting Periods as mentioned in the Policy 
Schedule/ Certificate of Insurance shall apply in respect of that Insured Person. 
 
B. Permanent Exclusions: 
 
A permanent exclusion will be applied on any medical or physical condition or treatment of an Insured 
Person, if specifically mentioned in the Policy Schedule and has been accepted by You . This option as per 

--- PAGE 92 ---

 
Health Plus   
 
Health Plus         UIN: NBHHLGP22157V032122 
 
 
Internal 
company’s underwriting policy, will be used for such condition(s) or treatment(s) that otherwise would 
have resulted in rejection of insurance coverage under this Policy to such Insured Person. 
 
We shall not be liable to make any payme nt under this Policy directly or indirectly caused by, based on, 
arising out of or howsoever attributable to any of the following unless specifically mentioned elsewhere in 
the Policy.  
 
 
I. Change-of-Gender treatments (Code-Excl07) 
Expenses related to any tr eatment, including surgical management, to change characteristics of 
the body to those of the opposite sex. 
 
II. Cosmetic or plastic Surgery (Code-Excl08) 
Expenses for cosmetic or plastic surgery or any treatment to change appearance unless for 
reconstruction following an Accident, Burn(s) or Cancer or as part of medically necessary 
treatment to remove a direct and immediate health risk to the insured. For this to be considered 
a medical necessity, it must be certified by the attending Medical Practitioner. 
 
III. Excluded Providers (Code-Excl11) 
Expenses incurred towards treatment in any Hospital or by any Medical Practitioner or any other 
provider specifically excluded by Us and disclosed in Our website / notified to the Policyholders 
are not admissible. However, in case of life threatening situations or following an Accident, 
expenses up to the stage of stabilization are payable but not the complete claim. The co mplete 
list of excluded providers can be referred to on our website.  
IV. Treatments received in heath hydros, nature  cure clinics, spas or similar establishments or 
private beds registered as a nursing home attached to such establishments or where admission is 
arranged wholly or partly for domestic reasons. (Code-Excl13) 
 
V. Sterility and Infertility (Code-Excl17) 
Expenses related to sterility and infertility. This includes: 
a. Any type of contraception, sterilization 
b. Assisted Reproduction services including artificial insemination and advanced 
reproductive technologies such as IVF, ZIFT, GIFT, ICSI 
c. Gestational Surrogacy 
d. Reversal of sterilization 
 
VI. Maternity (Code-Excl18) 
a. Medical treatment expenses traceable to childbirth (including complicated deliveries 
and caesarean sections incurred during hospitalization) except ectopic pregnancy;  
b. Expenses towards miscarriage (unless due to an accident) and lawful medical 
termination of pregnancy during the policy period. 
 
VII. External Congenital Anomaly:  
Screening, counseling or treatment related to external Congenital Anomaly. 
VIII. Sexually transmitted Infections & diseases (other than HIV / AIDS):  
Screening, prevention and treatment for sexually related infection or disease (other than HIV / 
AIDS). 
IX. Alternative Treatments: 
Any covered Critical Illnesses diagnosed and/or treated by Medical Practitioner who practices 
Alternative Medicine. 
 
X. Unrecognized Physician or Hospital: 

--- PAGE 93 ---

 
Health Plus   
 
Health Plus         UIN: NBHHLGP22157V032122 
 
 
Internal 
a. Treatment or Medical Advice provided by a Medical Practitioner not recognized by the 
Medical Council of India or by Central Council of Indian Medicine or by Central Council of 
Homeopathy or by relevant authorities in the area where the treatment is taken.  
b. Treatment or Medical Advice related to one system of medicine provided by a Medical 
Practitioner of another system of medicine. 
c. Treatment provided by anyone with the same residence as an Insured Person or who is a 
member of the Insured Person’s immediate family or relatives. 
d. Treatment provided by Hospital or health facility that is not recognized by the relevant 
authorities in India or any other country where treatment takes place. 
 
3.7.2.8. Claims Process & Requirements: 
 
The fulfillment of the terms and conditions of this Policy (including payment of full premium in advance by 
the due dates mentioned in the Certificate of Insurance) in so far as they relate to anything to be done or 
complied with by the Insured Person, inc luding complying with the following in relation to claims, shall be 
Condition Precedent to admission of Our liability under this Policy. 
 
Claims Administration: 
On the occurrence or discovery of any Illness or Injury that may give rise to a claim under this Section, the 
Claims Procedure set out below shall be followed: 
a. The directions, advice and guidance of the treating Medical Practitioner shall be strictly follo wed. We 
shall not be obliged to make any payment that arises out of willful failure to comply with such 
directions, advice or guidance. 
b. We and Our representatives must be permitted to inspect the Medical Records and Hospitalization 
records pertaining to the Insured Person’s treatment and to investigate the circumstances pertaining to 
the claim. 
c. We and Our representatives must be given all reasonable co -operations in investigating the claim in 
order to assess its liability and quantum in respect of the claim. 
 
It is hereby agreed and understood that no change in the Medical Record provided under the Medical Advice, by 
the Hospital or the Insured Person to Us  or Our Service Provider during the period of Hospitalization or after 
discharge by any means of request will be accepted by Us. Any decision on request for acceptance of change will 
be at Our discretion. 
 
Claims Procedure 
a. If the Insured Person is diagnosed / underwent a Surgical Procedure or any medical condition falling 
under purview of the definition of Critical Illness as mentioned in the Policy that may result in a claim, 
then the Insured Person must provide intimation to Us immediately and in any event within 7 days of 
the afo resaid Illness/ condition/ surgical event or completion of Survival Period and which can be 
received from You/Insured Person through various modes like email / telephone/ fax/ in person or may 
be via letter or any other suitable mode. Upon receipt of information We will register the claim under a 
unique claim number. 
 
b. The following details are to be provided at the time of intimation of claim: 
i. The Policy Number/Certificate Number, 
ii. Name of the Policyholder; 

--- PAGE 94 ---

 
Health Plus   
 
Health Plus         UIN: NBHHLGP22157V032122 
 
 
Internal 
iii. Employee No./ Member ID 
iv. Name and address of the Insured Person in respect of whom the request is being made; 
v. Nature of Illness or Injury and the treatment/Surgery taken; 
vi. Name and address of the attending Medical Practitioner ;  
vii. Hospital where treatment/Surgery was taken; 
viii. Date of Occurrence of Insured Event or/and date of admission ; 
ix. Any other information that may be relevant to the Illness/ Injury/ Hospitalization. 
 
Claims Documentation 
We shall be provided with the following necessary information and documentation in respect of all claims at 
Your/Insured Person’s expense within 30 days of the date of occurrence of an Insured Event or completion of 
Survival Period, at own expense to avail the Claim. 
 
a. Claim form duly completed and signed by the Insured Person. 
Please provide mandatorily following information if applicable 
i. Current diagnosis and date of diagnosis; 
ii. Past history and first consultation details; 
iii. Previous admission/Surgery if any. 
b. Age/identity proof document of the Proposer. 
i. Self attested copy of valid Age proof (passport / driving license / PAN card / class X certificate / 
birth certificate); 
ii. Self attested copy of identity proof (passport / driving license / PAN card / voter identity card); 
iii. Recent passport size photograph.  
c. Cancelled cheque/ bank statement / copy of passbook mentioning account holder’s name, IFSC code 
and account number printed on it of Insured Person / nominee ( in case of death of Insured Person) 
d. Hospital discharge summary(if applicable) 
e. Additional documents required in case of Surgery/Surgical Procedure (If applicable) 
i. Bar code sticker and invoice for implants and prosthesis (if used) 
f. Original final bill from Hospital with detailed break-up and paid receipt (If applicable) 
g. Copy of death certificate (in case of demise of the Insured Person) 
h. For Medico-legal cases (MLC) or in case of Accident as may be applicable 
i. MLC and First Information Report  (FIR) copy duly attested by the concerned  Hospital and police 
station respectively. (if applicable); 
ii. Original self-narration of incident in absence of MLC/ FIR. 
i. Original laboratory investigation, diagnostic & pathological reports with supporting prescriptions. 
j. Original X-Ray/ MRI / ultrasound films and other radiological investigations. 
 
Claims Documents applicable to Section 3.7.2.3 (Income Protector): 
In the event of a claim arising out of an Insured Event covered under Section 3.7.2.3 above, You/Insured 
Person shall within thirty (30) days from the date of such severance from the employment, shall arrange for 
submission of the following documents to Us: 
1. Duly completed claim form; 
2. Certificate from the employer of the Insured Person confirming the severance from employment the date 
of and the reasons for the same.  
 

--- PAGE 95 ---

 
Health Plus   
 
Health Plus         UIN: NBHHLGP22157V032122 
 
 
Internal 
If these details are not provided in full or are insufficient forUs to consider the request, We will request additional 
information or documentation in respect of that request. 
 
Claims Assessment & Repudiation 
We shall be under no obligation to make any payment under this Policy unless it has been provided with the 
documentation and information which We have requested to establish the circumstances of the claim, 
its quantum or liability for it, an d unless the Insured Person has complied with his obligations under this 
Policy. 
a. We shall not be liable to make any payment under this Section in respect of any claim if such claim be in any 
manner fraudulent or supported by any fraudulent means whether by the Insured Person or by any other 
person acting on his behalf. 
b. If We, for any reasons to be recorded in writing and communicated to the Insured Person, decide to reject a 
claim under the Policy, it shall do so within a period of 30 days from the receipt of last necessary 
information and documentation set out above. 
c. In the unfortunate event of the Insured Person death, We will  pay the Nominee named in the 
Certificate of Insurance or the Insured Person ’s legal heirs or legal representatives holding a valid 
succession certificate. 
d. Our total liability in aggregate of all claims under the Policy for a specific Insured Person shall not exceed the 
respective Sum Insured as specified in the Certificate of Insurance of that Insured Person 
 
 
 
3.8. Wellness Benefits: 
This Section is available either to either the Insured Person only or along with his/her spouse as specified in the Policy 
Schedule/Certificate of Insurance. Subject to the Policy terms and conditions and to encourage good health and well 
being, We shall provide the following wellness related services to You/Insured Person(s) covered under this Benefit 
through Our empanelled Service Providers. 
 
3.8.1. Personalized health coaching:  
This Benefit is available either to the Insured Person or the Insured Person along with his/her spouse. Subject to 
Policy terms and conditions and to encourage good health and well being, We shall provide the following 
wellness related services to the Insured Person(s) covered under this Benefit and We shall be assisted in 
administering these services through Our Service Provider: 
a. Personalized health coaching – The Insured Person will have the facility to connect with a personal coach 
through a mobile application to guide and motivate the Insured Person to achieve his/her personal health 
goals. The health coach facility assists in identifying factors relating to the Insured Person’s lifestyle and 
habits and also suggests ways to shift these habits to improve activity and wellness and to encourage overall 
well-being.  
 
The health coaching facility is unlimited and can be availed any number of times during the Policy Period. In 
order to obtain access to the health coach facility, the Insured Person would be required to download the 
mobile application and register his/her specified details through the mobile application. When registration is 
complete, the Insured Person’s health coach will notify him/her through the mobile application to set up the 
Insured Person’s  introductory call where Insured Person  will discuss with the health coach to establish 
his/her short and long term goals. Once these goals are recorded, the health coach will provide on -going 
daily support, motivation and interpretation of the Insured Person’s tracking data to help the Insured Person 
stay on track to reach his/her goals. The Insured Person and the health coach will also be able to connect 
frequently to review the progress and revise the existing goals or set new goals.  

--- PAGE 96 ---

 
Health Plus   
 
Health Plus         UIN: NBHHLGP22157V032122 
 
 
Internal 
 
The mobile application shall also keep track of Insured Person’s steps taken, daily food logs etc., which can 
be accessed by the Insured Person, personal health coach and Our empanelled Medical Practitioners under 
this Benefit. 
 
b. Calculation of health score - Health Score shall be calculated as per the table below:  
Health Score Model  
Task Based  Tasks to be Completed Complete & win  
(Points/task)  
One time 
Sign up & Activation  500  Selecting your own goals 500  Taking your first Health assessment 750  Completing your first tele-consultation with Our empanelled 
Medical Practitioner 500  
Uploading your first health record 750  
Weekly 
Coach engagement (>3 interactions / week) 250  Walking - Steps count (5000 steps /day --- 5 times /week) 300  Daily food logs (minimum 10 logs/ week) 250  
Monthly Habit tracking (minimum 15 check in) 500  Monthly Coach review – Call 500  Quarterly Health Assessment 500  
Half Yearly Tele-consultation with Our empanelled Medical Practitioner 1200  Sharing your test reports / records 1500  
    
Performance 
Based  Parameters for performance review  
Score - based on 
your performance  
(Max points / 
review )  
One time Health Assessment at the time of on boarding 2000  Monthly Monthly performance - Quality score by personal health coach 2000  
Quarterly On completion of goal set by personal health coach 500  Based on health assessment results 2000  
  Annual Health 
score  (Task based points + Performance based points) Earn up to 1 lac 
points in a year  
  
One time Task Based points in second and subsequent Policy Year will get replaced with Renewal points 
awarded on Renewal of the Policy along with Health Coach Benefit. For Health Score  calculation, monthly 
scores will be calculated and accumulated to arrive at the annual Health Score. 
 
c. Discount in renewal premium basis Health Score: 
We will provide a discount in Renewal Base Premium based on the Insured Person’s Health Score under this 
Benefit as per following table: 
Health Score  Discount in Renewal Base 
Premium 
0-9999 0% 
10000-69999 5% 
70000-79999 10% 
80000-89999 15% 

--- PAGE 97 ---

 
Health Plus   
 
Health Plus         UIN: NBHHLGP22157V032122 
 
 
Internal 
90000-100000 20% 
 
The Health Score of the Insured Person (average health score if both the Insured Person and spouse are 
covered under this Benefit) shall be considered for calculating the discount in Renewal Base Premium  
applicable to the Insured Person.  
For the first Renewal, the Health Score at the end of nine Policy months shall be considered and pro-rated to 
arrive at the twelve months score for calculating the discount in Renewal Base Premium  for the Insured 
Person. For subsequent Renewals, Health Score for the next twelve Policy months from the date of last 
annual Health Score calculation , shall be considered for calculating the discount in Renewal Base Premium  
for the Insured Person.  
 
The above Benefits will be subject to following conditions: 
i. For services that are availed over phone or through online/ digital mode, the Insured Person will be required 
to provide the details as sought by Our Service Provider in order to establish authenticity and validity prior to 
availing such services.  
ii. It is entirely for the Insured Person(s) to decide whether to obtain these services, the extent to which he/she 
wishes to avail these services and further to decide whether to use any of these services and if so to which 
extent. 
iii. The services are intended to provide support information to the Insured Person to improve well -being and 
habits through working towards personalized health goals. These services are not medical advice and are not 
meant to substitute the Insured Person's visit/ consultation to an independent Medical Practitioner.  
iv. The information services provided under this Benefit, including inform ation provided through personalized 
health coaching services, does not constitute medical advice of any kind and it is not intended to be, and 
should not be, used to diagnose or identify treatment for a medical or mental health condition. The 
information s ervices provided under this Benefit, including information provided through personalized 
health coaching services, does not substitute for any medical advice as well. 
v. The Insured Person shall be free to consider or not consider the suggestions of the healt h coach and make 
any lifestyle changes based on information provided through these services. For any change the Insured 
Person makes to his lifestyle whether or not on the advice of the health coach, We or Our Service Provider 
shall in no manner be liable for any harm or injury, whether bodily or otherwise that may occur as a result of 
such lifestyle changes. The Insured Person must seek immediate medical advice if there is any adverse effect 
or discomfort on making any lifestyle changes.  
vi. We or Our Service  Provider do not warrant the validity, accuracy, completeness, safety, quality, or 
applicability of the content or anything said or written by any personal health coach or any suggestions 
provided. We or Our Service Provider will not be liable for any dama ges sustained due to reliance by the 
Insured Person on such information or suggestions provided by any personal health coach. 
Health Coaching through a personal health coach and calculation of the Health Score are being provided through 
Our Service Provide r. For details on terms and co nditions for use of health coaching services, please visit 
www.nivabupa.com/HealthCoach. 
 
3.8.2. OPD Services 
The Insured Person may avail OPD services from Our empanelled Service Provider through its mobile application 
or website. The cost for the OPD treatment shall be borne by the Insured Person. However, We shall  not be 
responsible for any dispute between the Insured Person and the Service Provider for any re ason whatsoever. 
Further for OPD treatment taken from Our empanelled Service Provider is the Insured Person’s absolute 
discretion and choice. 
 
3.8.3. Pharmacy Services 
The Insured Person may purchase medicines from Our empanelled Service Provider through its mobile 
application or website. The cost for the purchase of the medicines shall be borne by the Insured Person. 

--- PAGE 98 ---

 
Health Plus   
 
Health Plus         UIN: NBHHLGP22157V032122 
 
 
Internal 
However, We shall not be responsible for any dispute between the Insured Person and the Service Provide r for 
any reason whatsoever. Further purchase of medicines from Our empanelled Service Provider is the Insured 
Person’s absolute discretion and choice. 
 
3.8.4. Diagnostic Services 
The Insured Person may avail various diagnostic tests from Our empanelled Service Provider through its mobile 
application or website. The cost of diagnostic tests shall be borne by the Insured Person. However, We shall not 
be responsible for any dispute between the Insured Person and the Service Provider for any reason whatsoever. 
Further the diagnostic tests taken from Our empanelled Service Provider is the Insured Person’s absolute 
discretion and choice. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4. General Exclusions(applicable to all Sections under the Policy unless specified otherwise): 
We shall not be liable to make any payment under this Policy directly or indirectly for, caused by, based 
on, arising out of or howsoever attributable to any of the following unless specifically mentioned 
elsewhere in the Policy or in Policy Schedule/Certificate of Insurance. 
 
i. Conflict & Disaster: Treatment for any Injury or Illness resulting directly or indirectly from 
nuclear, radiological emissions, war or war like situations (whether war is declared or not), 
rebellion (act of armed resistance to an established government or leader). 
ii. Caused by or contributed to by or arising from ionising radiation or contamination by 
radioactivity from any nuclear fuel or from any nuclear waste or from the combustion of nuclear 
fuel. For the purpose of this exclusion, combustion shall include any  self-sustaining process of 
nuclear fission. 
iii. Breach of Law: Code: Excl 10: Expenses for treatment directly arising from or consequent upon any 
Insured Person committing or attempting to commit a breach of law with criminal intent. 
iv. Any injury as a result of Intentional self inflicted Injury, suicide or attempted suicide by any means. 
v. Treatment for, alcoholism, drug or substance abuse or any addictive condition and consequences 
thereof Code Excl 12 
vi. Intentional Inhaling any gas or fumes, except in the course of duty 
vii. Participation in aviation other than as a fare-paying passenger in an aircraft that is authorized by 
the relevant regulations to carry such passengers between established aerodromes. 
viii. Any disability arising out of Pre-Existing Disease if not accepted and endorsed by Us on the Policy 
Schedule or Certificate of Insurance. 
ix. Hazardous or Adventure Sports: Code Excl 09: Expenses related to any treatment necessitated due to 
participation as a professional in hazardous or adventure sports, including but no t limited to, para -
jumping, rock climbing, mountaineering, rafting, motor racing, horse racing or scuba diving, hand 
gliding, sky diving, deep-sea diving. 
x. Investigation & Evaluation: Code Excl04 :  
a. Expenses related to any admission primarily for diagnos tics and evaluation purposes only are 
excluded. 

--- PAGE 99 ---

 
Health Plus   
 
Health Plus         UIN: NBHHLGP22157V032122 
 
 
Internal 
b. Any diagnostic expenses which are not related or not incidental to the current diagnosis and 
treatment are excluded.  
xi. Loss/damage, cost or expense of whatsoever nature directly or indirectly caused by, resulting 
from or in connection with any action taken in controlling, preventing, suppressing or in any way 
relating to any act of terrorism. 
xii. Any Injury/ Illness caused due to animal bite/ attack unless opted for the specific cover and same 
to be mentioned in the Policy Schedule/Certificate of Insurance. 
xiii. Any exclusion mentioned in the Policy Schedule/Certificate of Insurance or the breach of any 
specific condition mentioned in the Policy Schedule/Certificate of Insurance. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5. General Terms and Conditions 
 
Standard Terms and Conditions: 
 
5.1. Migration  
The insured person will have the option to migrate the policy to other health insurance products/plans 
offered by the company by applying for migration of the policyatleast 30 days before the policy renewal 
date as per IRDAI guidelines on Migration. lf such person is presently covered and has been continuously 
covered without any lapses under any health insurance product/plan offered by the company, the insured 
person will get the accrued continuity benefits in waiting periods as per IRDAI guidelines on migration. 
 
For Detailed Guidelines on migration, kindly refer the link 
https://www.irdai.gov.in/ADMINCMS/cms/whatsNew_Layout.aspx?page=PageNo3987&flag=1 
 
 
5.2. Free Look Period 
The Free Look Period shall be applicable on new individual health insurance policies and not on renewals 
or at the time of porting/migrating the policy. 
 
The insured person shall be allowed free look period of fifteen days(thirty days for policies with a term of 
3 years, if sold through distance marketing) from date of receipt of the policy document to review the 
terms and conditions of the policy, and to return the same if not acceptable. 
 
lf the insured has not made any claim during the Free Look Period, the insured shall be entitled to  
I. a refund of the premium paid less any expenses incurred by the Company on medical 
examination of the insured person and the stamp duty charges or 
II. Where the risk has already commenced and the option of return of the policy is exercised by the 
insured person, a deduction towards the proportionate risk premium for period of cover or 
III. Where only a part of the insurance coverage has commenced, such proportionate premium 
commensurate with the insurance coverage during such period 
 
5.3. Cancellation  

--- PAGE 100 ---

 
Health Plus   
 
Health Plus         UIN: NBHHLGP22157V032122 
 
 
Internal 
 
I. The policyholder may cancel this policy by giving 15 days written notice and in such an event, the 
Company shall refund premium for the unexpired policy period as prorate or s hort period Grid 
1/2 option opted by the Policyholder 
 
Notwithstanding anything contained herein or otherwise, no refunds of premium shall be made 
in respect of Cancellation where, any claim has been admitted or has been lodged or any benefit 
has been availed by the insured person under the policy.  
 
 
Short Period Grid 
  Refund % 
  Policy Term 
Timing of 
Cancellation 1 1.5 2 2.5 3 3.5 4 4.5 5 
 Up to 30 days  75.0% 80.
0% 
85.
0% 
87.
5% 
90.
0% 
92.5
% 92.5% 95.0% 95.0% 
 31 to 90 days  50.0% 65.
0% 
70.
0% 
75.
0% 
80.
0% 
85.0
% 87.5% 87.5% 87.5% 
 3 to 6 months  25.0% 50.
0% 
60.
0% 
65.
0% 
67.
5% 
70.0
% 75.0% 75.0% 75.0% 
 6 to 12 months  0.0% 25.
0% 
40.
0% 
45.
0% 
50.
0% 
55.0
% 60.0% 65.0% 65.0% 
 12 to 18 
months   
0.0
% 
15.
0% 
30.
0% 
37.
5% 
45.0
% 47.5% 50.0% 55.0% 
 18 to 24 
months    
0.0
% 
15.
0% 
25.
0% 
32.5
% 37.5% 42.5% 47.5% 
 24 to 30 
months     
0.0
% 
12.
5% 
20.0
% 25.0% 35.0% 40.0% 
 30 to 36 
months      
0.0
% 
10.0
% 17.5% 25.0% 32.5% 
 36 to 42 
months  
     
0.
0
% 
10.
0% 
17.
5% 
27.
5% 
42 to 48 
months        
0.0
% 
12.
5% 
20.
0% 
48 to 54 
months        
0.0
% 
10.
0% 
54 to 60 
months         
0.0
% 
 
 

--- PAGE 101 ---

 
Health Plus   
 
Health Plus         UIN: NBHHLGP22157V032122 
 
 
Internal 
II. The Company may cancel the policy at any time on grounds of misrepresentation non -disclosure 
of material facts, fraud by the insured person by giving 15 days' written notice. There would be 
no refund of premium on cancellation on grounds of misrepresentation, non -disclosure of 
material facts or fraud. 
 
 
 
5.4. Premium Payment in Installments:  
If the Insured Person has opted for payment of premium onan installment basis, i.e. Half yearly, Quarterly, 
or monthly, as mentioned in the Policy Schedule/Certificate of Insurance , the following conditions shall 
apply (notwithstanding any terms contrary elsewhere in the policy); 
a. Grace Period of 30 days in case of single premium policies, and a period of 15 days in case of other 
than single premium policies, would be given to pay the instalment premium due for the policy. 
b. During such grace period, coverage will not be available from the due date of instalment premium 
till the date of receipt of premium by Company. 
c. The insured person will get the accrued continuity benefit in respect of the "Waiting Periods", 
"Specific Waiting Periods" in the event of payment of premium within the stipulated grace Period. 
d. No interest will be charged lf the instalment premium is not paid on due date 
e. ln case of instalment premium due not received within the grace period, the policy will get 
cancelled. 
f. ln the event of a claim, all subsequent premium instalments shall immediately become due and 
payable. 
g. The company has the right to recover and deduct all the pending installments from the claim 
amount due under the policy. 
 
5.5. Renewal of Policy 
The policy shall ordinarily be renewable except on grounds of fraud, misrepresentation by the insured 
person.  
I. The Company shall endeavor to give notice for renewal. However, the Company is not under 
obligation to give any notice for renewal. 
II. Renewal shall not be denied on the ground that the insured person had made a claim or claims in 
the preceding policy years. 
III. Request for renewal along with requisite premium shall be received by the Company before the 
end of the policy period. 
IV. At the end of the policy period, the policy shall terminate and can be renewed within the Grace 
Period of 30 days to maintain continuity of benefits without break in policy. Coverage is not 
available during the grace period. 
V. No loading shall apply on renewals based on individual claims experience. 
 
 
5.6. Nomination  
The policyholder is required at the inception of the policy to make a nomination for the purpose of 
payment of claims under the policy in the event of death of the policyholder. Any change of nomination 
shall be communicated to the company in writing and s uch change shall be effective only when an 
endorsement on the policy is made. ln the event of death of the policyholder, the Company will pay the 
nominee {as named in the Policy Schedule/Policy Certificate/Endorsement (if any)} and in case there is no 

--- PAGE 102 ---

 
Health Plus   
 
Health Plus         UIN: NBHHLGP22157V032122 
 
 
Internal 
subsisting nominee, to the legal heirs or legal representatives of the policyholder whose discharge shall be 
treated as full and final discharge of its liability under the policy. 
 
 
5.7. Fraud 
lf any claim made by the insured person, is in any respect fraudulent, or if any false statement, or declaration is 
made or used in support thereof, or if any fraudulent means or devices are used by the insured person or 
anyone acting on his/her behalf to obtain any benefit under this policy, all benefits under this policy an d the 
premium paid shall be forfeited. 
 
Any amount already paid against claims made under this policy but which are found fraudulent later shall be 
repaid by all recipient(s)/policyholder(s), who has made that particular claim, who shall be jointly and sev erally 
liable for such repayment to the insurer. 
 
For the purpose of this clause, the expression "fraud" means any of the following acts committed by the 
insured person or by his agent or the hospital/doctor/any other pa rty acting on behalf of the insured person, 
with intent to deceive the insurer or to induce the insurer to issue an insurance policy:  
 
a) the suggestion, as a fact of that which is not true and which the insured person does not believe to be 
true;  
b) the active concealment of a fact by the insured person having knowledge or belief of the fact;  
c) any other act fitted to deceive; and  
d) any such act or omission as the law specially declares to be fraudulent 
 
The Company shall not repudiate the claim and / or forfeit the policy benefits on the ground o f Fraud, if the 
insured person / beneficiary can prove that the misstatement was true to the best of his knowledge and there 
was no deliberate intention to suppress the fact or that such misstatement of or suppression of material fact 
are within the knowledge of the insurer. 
 
 
5.8. Claims Settlement (Provision for Penal Interest) 
I. The Company shall settle or reject a claim, as the case may be, within 30 days from the date of 
receipt of last necessary document. 
II. ln the case of delay in the payment of a claim, the Company shall be liable to pay interest to the 
policyholder from the date of receipt of last necessary document to the date of payment of claim 
at a rate 2% above the bank rate. 
III. However, where the circumstances of a claim warrant an investigation in the opinion of the 
Company, it shall initiate and complete such investigation at the earliest, in any case not later than 
30 days from the date of receipt of last necessary document- ln such cases, the Company shall 
settle or reject the claim within 45 days from the date of receipt of last necessary document. 
IV. ln case of delay beyond stipulated 45 days, the Company shall be liable to pay interest to the 
policyholder at a rate 2% above the bank rate from the date of receipt of last necessary document 
to the date of payment of claim. 
(Explanation: "Bank rate" shall mean the rate fixed by the Reserve Bank of lndia (RBl) at the beginning of 
the financial year in which claim has fallen due) 
 

--- PAGE 103 ---

 
Health Plus   
 
Health Plus         UIN: NBHHLGP22157V032122 
 
 
Internal 
 
 
5.9. Possibility of Revision of Terms of the Policy Including the Premium Rates 
The Company, with prior approval of IRDAI, may revise or modify the terms of the policy including the 
premium rates. The insured person shall be notified three months before the changes are affected. 
 
5.10. Withdrawal of Policy 
I. ln the likelihood of this product being withdrawn in future, the Company will intimate the 
insured person about the same 90 days prior to expiry of the policy.  
II. lnsured Person will have the option to migrate to similar health insurance product available with 
the Company at the time of renewal with all the accrued continuity benefits such as cumulative 
bonus, waiver of waiting period as per IRDAI guidelines, provided the policy has been maintained 
without a break. 
 
5.11. Redressal of Grievance:  
a. ln case of any grievance the insured person may contact the company through: 
 Website: www.nivabupa.com 
 Courier:  Customer Services Department 
 Niva Bupa Health Insurance Company Limited 
 Niva Bupa Health Insurance Company Limited 
  2nd Floor, Plot No D-5, Sector 59,  
Noida, Gautam Budhnagar – 201301  
 Fax No.: 011-3090-2010 
 
 Customer Care no: 1860-500-8888 
  
 Email ID: customercare@nivabupa.com 
         Senior citizens may write to us at:seniorcitizensupport@nivabupa.com 
 
b. lnsured person may also approach the grievance cell at any of the company's branches with the 
details of grievance lf lnsured person is not satisfied with the redressal of grievance through one 
of the above methods, insured person may contact the grievance officer at  
 
Head – Customer Services 
 Niva Bupa Health Insurance Company Limited 
 Niva Bupa Health Insurance Company Limited 
  2nd Floor, Plot No D-5, Sector 59,  
Noida, Gautam Budhnagar – 201301  
 Fax No.: 011-3090-2010 
 Customer Care no: 1860-500-8888 
 Email ID: customercare@nivabupa.com 
 For updated details of grievance officer, kindly refer the link 
https://www.nivabupa.com/customer-care/health-services/grievance-redressal.aspx 
 
If the Insured person is not satisfied with the above, they can escalate to GRO@nivabupa.com. 
 

--- PAGE 104 ---

 
Health Plus   
 
Health Plus         UIN: NBHHLGP22157V032122 
 
 
Internal 
c. lf lnsured person is not satisfied with the redressal  of grievance through above methods, the 
insured person may also approach the office of lnsurance Ombudsman of the respective 
area/region for redressal of grievance as per lnsurance Ombudsman Rules 2017 ( at the 
addresses given in Annexure 1). 
 
d. Grievance m ay also be lodged at IRDAI integrated Grievance Management System - 
https://igms.irda.gov.in/ 
 
5.12. Moratorium Period  
After completion of eight continuous years under the policy, no look back to be applied. This period of 
eight years is called as moratorium period. The moratorium would be applicable for the Sums Insured of 
the first Policy and subsequently completion of eight continuous years would be applicable from date of 
enhancement of Sums Insured only on the enhanced limits. After the expiry of moratorium  period, no 
health insurance claim shall be contestable except for proven fraud and permanent exclusions specified 
in the Policy contract. The Polic ies would however be subject to all limits, sub limits, co -payments, 
deductibles as per the Policy contract. 
 
5.13. Multiple Policies 
I. ln case of multiple policies taken by an insured person during a period from one or more insurers to 
indemnify treatment costs, the insured person shall have the right to require a settlement of his/her claim in 
terms of any of his/her policies. ln all such cases the insurer chosen by the insured person shall be obliged to 
settle the claim as long as the claim is within the limits of and according to the terms of the chosen policy. 
II.  lnsured person having multiple policies shall also have the right to prefer claims under this policy for 
the amounts disallowed under any other policy / policies even if the sum insured is not exhausted. Then the 
insurer shall independently settle the claim subject to the terms and conditions of this policy. 
III. lf the amount to be claimed exceeds the sum insured under a single policy, the insured person shall 
have the right to choose insurer from whom he/she wants to claim the balance amount. 
IV. Where an insured person has policies from more than one insurer to cover the same risk on indemnity 
basis, the insured person shall only be indemnified the treatment costs in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of the chosen policy 
  
5.14. Disclosure of Information  
The P olicy shall be void and all premium paid thereon shall be forfeited to the Company in the event of 
misrepresentation, mis-description or non-disclosure of any material fact by the policyholder 
 
(Explanation: “Material facts” for the purpose of this policy shall mean all relevant information sought by the 
company in the proposal form and other connected documents to enable it to take informed decision in the 
context of underwriting the risk) 
 
5.15.  Condition Precedent to Admission of Liability 
The terms and conditions of the policy must be fulfilled by the insured person for the Company to make any 
payment for claim(s) arising under the policy. 
 
5.16. Complete Discharge 
Any payment to the policy holder, insured person or his/her nominees or his/her legal 
representatives or assignee or to the hospital, as the case may be, for any benefit under the  
policy shall be a valid discharge  towards payment of claim by the company to the extent of that 
amount for the particular claim. 
 

--- PAGE 105 ---

 
Health Plus   
 
Health Plus         UIN: NBHHLGP22157V032122 
 
 
Internal 
5.17. Portability 
The insured person will have the option to port the policy to other insurers by applying to such insurer 
to port the entire policy along with all the members of the family, if any, at least 45 days before, but 
not earlier than 60 days from the policy renewal date as per IRDAI guidelines r elated to portability. lf 
such person is presently covered and has been continuously covered without any lapses under any 
health insurance policy with an lndian General/Health insurer, the proposed insured person will get 
the accrued continuity benefits in waiting periods as per IRDAI guidelines on portability 
 
For Detailed Guidelines on portability, kindly refer the link 
https://www.irdai.gov.in/ADMINCMS/cms/whatsNew_Layout.aspx?page=PageNo3987&flag=1 
 
 
Specific Terms and Conditions: 
 
5.18. Automatic Cancellation: 
i. Individual Cover: 
The Certificate of Insurance coverage shall automatically terminate in the event of death of the 
Insured Person.  
ii. For Family Floater Cover 
The cover under the Policy coverage shall automatically terminate in the event of the death of all 
the Insured Persons under the Family Floater Cover. 
 
5.19. Cancellation by Us: 
We may terminate the Policy/ Certificate of Insurance during the Policy Period /Coverage Period by 
sending 15 days prior written notice to You/ Insured Person  at the address shown in the Policy 
Schedule/Certificate of Insurance without refund of premium (for cases other than non cooperation) if : 
i. Insured Person or any person acting on behalf of either has acted in a dishonest or fraudulent 
manner under or in relation to this Policy; and/or 
ii. Insured Person has not disclosed the Material Facts or misrepresente d in relation to the Policy; 
and/or 
  
For avoidance of doubt, it is clarified that no claims shall be admitted and/or paid by Us during the notice 
period in case of cancellation by Us.  
 
5.20. For installment premium, We will refund premium on pro rata basis aft er deducting Our 
expenses 
 
5.21. Cancellation in case of Credit Linked Cases: 
In cases the Policy is linked to the credit/ loan tenure, the coverage will continue till the end of loan tenure 
subject to maximum tenure of 5 years, closure of the loan or Policy Period/ Coverage Period Term whichever is 
earlier. The Insured Person shall inform Us of such closure of the loan immediately in order to cancel the cover 
under the Policy. For loan linked policy, claim will admissible only for active loans.. 
 
5.22. Other Renewal Conditions 
a. Continuity of Benefits on Timely Renewal: 
i. The Renewal premium is payable on or before the due date and in any circumstances before the 
expiry of Grace Period, at such rate as may be reviewed and notified by Us before completion of 

--- PAGE 106 ---

 
Health Plus   
 
Health Plus         UIN: NBHHLGP22157V032122 
 
 
Internal 
the Policy Period provided that all such changes are approved by IR DAI and in accordance with 
the IRDAI’s rules and regulations as applicable from time to time. 
ii. Renewal premium rates for this Policy may be further altered by Us including in the following 
circumstances: 
A. You/Insured Person proposed to add an Insured Person to the Policy 
B. You/Insured Person change any coverage provision 
iii. Renewal premium will alter based on individual Age.  The reference of Age for calculating the 
premium for Family Floater Policies shall be the Age of the eldest Insured Person. 
b. Reinstatement: 
i. The Policy shall lapse after the expiration of the Grace Period. If the Policy is not renewed within 
the Grace Period then We may agree to issue a fresh Policy subject to Our underwriting criteria, 
as per Our Board approved underwriting Policy and no continuing benefits shall be available from 
the expired Policy.  
ii. We will not pay for any Medical Expenses which are incurred between the date the Policy expires 
and the date immediately before the reinstatement date of Your/Insured Person’s Policy. 
iii. If there is any change in the Insured Person’s medical or physical condition, We may add 
exclusions or charge an extra premium from the reinstatement date. 
 
c. Disclosures on Renewal: 
You/Insured Person shall make a full disclosure to Us  in writing of any material change in the health 
condition or geographical location of any Insured Person at the time of seeking Renewal of this Policy, 
irrespective of any claim arising or made. The terms and condition of the existing Policy will not be 
altered. 
 
d. Addition of Insured Persons on Renewal: 
Where an individual is added to this Policy either by way of endorsement or at the time of Renewal, 
the Pre -Existing Disease clause, exclusions and Waiting Periods will be applicable considering such 
Policy Year as the first year of the Policy for that newly added individual with Us. 
 
e. Changes to Sum Insured on Renewal: 
You/Insured Person may opt for enhancement of Sum Insured  at the time of Renewal, subject to 
underwriting. Any enhanced Sum Insured applied on Renewal will not be available for an Illness or 
Injury already contracted under the preceding Policy Periods. All Waiting Periods as defined in the 
Policyshall apply afresh for this enhanced limit from the effective date of such enhancement. 
 
5.23. Obligations in case of a minor 
If an Insured Person is less than 18 years of Age, You/ Insured Person or another adult Insured Person or legal 
guardian (in case of the Insured Person’s and all other adult Insured Person’s demise) shall be completely 
responsible for ensuring compliance with all the terms and conditions of this Policy on behalf of that minor 
Insured Person. 
 
5.24. Assignment 
The Benefits under this Policy are assignable subject to applicable Laws. 
 
5.25. Records to be maintained:  

--- PAGE 107 ---

 
Health Plus   
 
Health Plus         UIN: NBHHLGP22157V032122 
 
 
Internal 
As a Condition Precedent, You/Insured Person shall keep an accurate record containing all relevant medical 
records and shall allow Us or Our representative(s) to inspect such records. You/Insured Person shall furnish 
such information as We may require under this Policy at any time during the Policy Period/ Coverage Period.  
 
5.26. Authorization to obtain all pertinent records or information:  
As a Condition Precedent to the payment of Benefits, We and/or Our Service Provider shall have the 
authority to obtain all pertinent records or info rmation from any Medical Practitioner, Hospital, clinic, 
insurer, individual or institution to assess the validity of a claim submitted by or on behalf of any Insured 
Person. 
5.27. Notification of Claim and Delay in Intimation: 
The notification of all claims should be sent to Us via one of the following: 
By calling Us at 1860-500-8888 
By registered post sent to: 
Customer Services Department 
Niva Bupa Health Insurance Company Limited 
2nd Floor, Plot No D-5, Sector 59,  
Noida, Gautam Budhnagar – 201301  
 Fax No.: 011-3090-2010 
 
By writing an email to customercare@nivabupa.com.  
If the claim is not notified to Us or claim documents are not submitted within the  stipulated time as 
mentioned in the above sections, then We shall be provided the reasons for the delay, in writing. We will 
condone such delay on merits where the delay has been proved to be for reasons beyond the claimant’s 
control. 
If You/Insured Perso n holds multiple sections (Indemnity & Benefit) under this Policy with Us, a single 
notification for claim will apply to all the sections of the Policy. 
5.28. Policy Disputes 
Any dispute concerning the interpretation of the terms, conditions, limitations and/or exclusions 
contained herein shall be governed by Indian law and shall be subject to the jurisdiction of the Indian 
Courts. 
 
5.29. Territorial Jurisdiction 
All Benefits are available in India only, and all claims shall be payable in India in Indian Rupees only. 
 
5.30. Role of Group Administrator 
The role of Group Policyholder as an administrator will only be to facilitate the insurance cover to its 
members. Any subsequent Policy servicing or claims related assistance shall directly be done by Us. 
5.31. Notices 
Any notice, direction or instruction given under this Policy shall be in writing and delivered by hand, post, 
or facsimile to: 
a. The Insured Person at the address specified in the Policy Schedule/ Certificate of Insurance or at the 
changed address of which We must receive written notice.  
b. Us at the following address: 
 

--- PAGE 108 ---

 
Health Plus   
 
Health Plus         UIN: NBHHLGP22157V032122 
 
 
Internal 
Niva Bupa Health Insurance Company Limited 
2nd Floor, Plot No D-5, Sector 59,  
Noida, Gautam Budhnagar – 201301  
Fax No.: 011-3090-2010 
 
c. No insurance agents, brokers or other person/entity is authorized to receive any notice on Our 
behalf. 
d. In addition, We may send You/Insured Person other information through electronic and 
telecommunications means with respect to the Policy from time to time. 
 
5.32. Alteration to the Policy 
This Policy constitutes the complete contract of insurance. No change or alteration shall be valid or 
effective unless approved in writing by Us, which approval shall be evidenced by a written Endorsement 
signed and stamped by Us.  
 

--- PAGE 109 ---

 
Health Plus   
 
Health Plus         UIN: NBHHLGP22157V032122 
 
 
Internal 
Annexure I - List of Insurance Ombudsmen 
 
Office Details Jurisdiction of Office  
Union Territory, District) 
AHMEDABAD - Shri Kuldip Singh 
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 
Jeevan Prakash Building, 6th floor, 
Tilak Marg, Relief Road, 
Ahmedabad – 380 001. 
Tel.: 079 - 25501201/02/05/06 
Email: bimalokpal.ahmedabad@cioins.co.in 
Gujarat, 
Dadra & Nagar Haveli, 
Daman and Diu. 
BENGALURU - Smt. Neerja Shah 
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 
Jeevan Soudha Building,PID No. 57-27-N-19 
Ground Floor, 19/19, 24th Main Road, 
JP Nagar, Ist Phase, 
Bengaluru – 560 078. 
Tel.: 080 - 26652048 / 26652049 
Email: bimalokpal.bengaluru@cioins.co.in 
Karnataka. 
BHOPAL - Shri Guru Saran Shrivastava  
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 
Janak Vihar Complex, 2nd Floor,  
6, Malviya Nagar, Opp. Airtel Office, 
Near New Market, 
Bhopal – 462 003. 
Tel.: 0755 - 2769201 / 2769202 
Fax: 0755 - 2769203 
Email: bimalokpal.bhopal@cioins.co.in 
Madhya Pradesh 
Chhattisgarh. 
BHUBANESHWAR - Shri Suresh Chandra Panda  
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 
62, Forest park, 
Bhubneshwar – 751 009. 
Tel.: 0674 - 2596461 /2596455 
Fax: 0674 - 2596429 
Email: bimalokpal.bhubaneswar@cioins.co.in 
Orissa. 
CHANDIGARH - Dr. Dinesh Kumar Verma  
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 
S.C.O. No. 101, 102 & 103, 2nd Floor, 
Batra Building, Sector 17 – D, 
Chandigarh – 160 017. 
Punjab, 
Haryana(excluding Gurugram, Faridabad, 
Sonepat and Bahadurgarh) 
Himachal Pradesh, Union Territories of 
Jammu & Kashmir, 

--- PAGE 110 ---

 
Health Plus   
 
Health Plus         UIN: NBHHLGP22157V032122 
 
 
Internal 
Office Details Jurisdiction of Office  
Union Territory, District) 
Tel.: 0172 - 2706196 / 2706468 
Fax: 0172 - 2708274 
Email: bimalokpal.chandigarh@cioins.co.in  
Ladakh & Chandigarh. 
CHENNAI - Shri M. Vasantha Krishna  
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 
Fatima Akhtar Court, 4th Floor, 453,  
Anna Salai, Teynampet, 
CHENNAI – 600 018. 
Tel.: 044 - 24333668 / 24335284 
Fax: 044 - 24333664 
Email: bimalokpal.chennai@cioins.co.in 
Tamil Nadu, 
Tamil Nadu 
PuducherryTown and  
Karaikal (which are part of Puducherry). 
DELHI - Shri Sudhir Krishna  
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 
2/2 A, Universal Insurance Building, 
Asaf Ali Road, 
New Delhi – 110 002. 
Tel.: 011 - 23232481/23213504 
Email: bimalokpal.delhi@cioins.co.in 
Delhi &  
Following Districts of Haryana - 
Gurugram, Faridabad, Sonepat & 
Bahadurgarh. 
GUWAHATI - Shri Kiriti .B. Saha  
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 
Jeevan Nivesh, 5th Floor, 
Nr. Panbazar over bridge, S.S. Road, 
Guwahati – 781001(ASSAM). 
Tel.: 0361 - 2632204 / 2602205 
Email: bimalokpal.guwahati@cioins.co.in 
Assam, 
Meghalaya, 
Manipur, 
Mizoram, 
Arunachal Pradesh, 
Nagaland and Tripura. 
HYDERABAD - Shri I. Suresh Babu  
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 
6-2-46, 1st floor, "Moin Court", 
Lane Opp. Saleem Function Palace,  
A. C. Guards, Lakdi-Ka-Pool, 
Hyderabad - 500 004. 
Tel.: 040 - 23312122  
Fax: 040 - 23376599 
Email: bimalokpal.hyderabad@cioins.co.in 
Andhra Pradesh, 
Telangana, 
Yanam and  
part of Union Territory of Puducherry. 
JAIPUR - Smt. Sandhya Baliga  
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 
Jeevan Nidhi – II Bldg., Gr. Floor, 
Rajasthan. 

--- PAGE 111 ---

 
Health Plus   
 
Health Plus         UIN: NBHHLGP22157V032122 
 
 
Internal 
Office Details Jurisdiction of Office  
Union Territory, District) 
Bhawani Singh Marg, 
Jaipur - 302 005. 
Tel.: 0141 - 2740363 
Email: bimalokpal.jaipur@cioins.co.in 
 
ERNAKULAM - Ms. Poonam Bodra  
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 
2nd Floor, Pulinat Bldg., 
Opp. Cochin Shipyard, M. G. Road, 
Ernakulam - 682 015. 
Tel.: 0484 - 2358759 / 2359338 
Fax: 0484 - 2359336 
Email: bimalokpal.ernakulam@cioins.co.in 
Kerala, 
Lakshadweep, 
Mahe-a part of Union Territory of 
Puducherry. 
KOLKATA - Shri P. K. Rath 
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 
Hindustan Bldg. Annexe, 4th Floor,  
4, C.R. Avenue,  
KOLKATA - 700 072.  
Tel.: 033 - 22124339 / 22124340  
Fax : 033 - 22124341 
Email: bimalokpal.kolkata@cioins.co.in 
West Bengal, 
Sikkim, 
Andaman & Nicobar Islands. 
LUCKNOW -Shri Justice Anil Kumar Srivastava 
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 
6th Floor, Jeevan Bhawan, Phase-II, 
Nawal Kishore Road, Hazratganj,  
Lucknow - 226 001.  
Tel.: 0522 - 2231330 / 2231331 
Fax: 0522 - 2231310 
Email: bimalokpal.lucknow@cioins.co.in 
Districts of Uttar Pradesh : 
Lalitpur, Jhansi, Mahoba, Hamirpur, 
Banda, Chitrakoot, Allahabad, Mirzapur, 
Sonbhabdra, Fatehpur, Pratapgarh, 
Jaunpur,Varanasi, Gazipur, Jalaun, 
Kanpur, Lucknow, Unnao, Sitapur, 
Lakhimpur, Bahraich, Barabanki, 
Raebareli, Sravasti, Gonda, Faizabad, 
Amethi, Kaushambi, Balrampur, Basti, 
Ambedkarnagar, Sultanpur, Maharajgang, 
Santkabirnagar, Azamgarh, Kushinagar, 
Gorkhpur, Deoria, Mau, Ghazipur, 
Chandauli, Ballia, Sidharathnagar. 
MUMBAI - Shri Milind A. Kharat 
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 
3rd Floor, Jeevan Seva Annexe,  
S. V. Road, Santacruz (W), 
Mumbai - 400 054. 
Tel.: 022 - 26106552 / 26106960 
Goa,  
Mumbai Metropolitan Region  
excluding Navi Mumbai & Thane. 

--- PAGE 112 ---

 
Health Plus   
 
Health Plus         UIN: NBHHLGP22157V032122 
 
 
Internal 
Office Details Jurisdiction of Office  
Union Territory, District) 
Fax: 022 - 26106052 
Email: bimalokpal.mumbai@cioins.co.in  
NOIDA - Shri Chandra Shekhar Prasad 
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 
Bhagwan Sahai Palace  
4th Floor, Main Road, 
Naya Bans, Sector 15, 
Distt: Gautam Buddh Nagar, 
U.P-201301. 
Tel.: 0120-2514252 / 2514253 
Email: bimalokpal.noida@cioins.co.in  
State of Uttaranchal and the following 
Districts of Uttar Pradesh: 
Agra, Aligarh, Bagpat, Bareilly, Bijnor, 
Budaun, Bulandshehar, Etah, Kanooj, 
Mainpuri, Mathura, Meerut, Moradabad, 
Muzaffarnagar, Oraiyya, Pilibhit, Etawah, 
Farrukhabad, Firozbad, 
Gautambodhanagar, Ghaziabad, Hardoi, 
Shahjahanpur, Hapur, Shamli, Rampur, 
Kashganj, Sambhal, Amroha, Hathras, 
Kanshiramnagar, Saharanpur. 
PATNA - Shri N. K. Singh 
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 
1st Floor,Kalpana Arcade Building,,  
Bazar Samiti Road, 
Bahadurpur, 
Patna 800 006. 
Tel.: 0612-2680952 
Email: bimalokpal.patna@cioins.co.in  
Bihar, 
Jharkhand. 
PUNE - Shri Vinay Sah 
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 
Jeevan Darshan Bldg., 3rd Floor, 
C.T.S. No.s. 195 to 198, 
N.C. Kelkar Road, Narayan Peth, 
Pune – 411 030. 
Tel.: 020-41312555 
Email: bimalokpal.pune@cioins.co.in  
Maharashtra, 
Area of Navi Mumbai and Thane 
excluding Mumbai Metropolitan Region. 
 
EXECUTIVE COUNCIL OF INSURERS, 
3rd Floor, Jeevan SevaAnnexe, 
S. V. Road, Santacruz (W), 
Mumbai - 400 054.  
 
Tel.: 022 - 69038801/03/04/05/06/07/08/09 
 
Email: inscoun@cioins.co.in 
 

--- PAGE 113 ---

 
Health Plus   
 
Health Plus         UIN: NBHHLGP22157V032122 
 
 
Internal 
Shri B. C. Patnaik, Secretary General  
Smt Poornima Gaitonde, Secretary  
  

--- PAGE 114 ---

 
Health Plus   
 
Health Plus         UIN: NBHHLGP22157V032122 
 
 
Internal 
 
 
 
ANNEXURE II 
 
List of Critical Illnesses 
 
Sr List of Critical Illness Basic Intermediate Advanced Women 
Child - 2 
years and 
above 
1 Abdominal Aortic Aneurysm     
2 Alzheimer's Disease      
3 Aortic Dissection     
4 Apallic Syndrome     
5 Aplastic Anaemia     
6 Bacterial Meningitis     
7 Benign brain tumor     
8 Blindness     
9 Cancer of specified severity     
10 
Cardiomyopathy including 
Peripartum and postpartum 
Cardiomyopathy 
    
11 Coma of specified severity     
12 Deafness     
13 End stage liver failure     
14 End stage lung failure     
15 Fulminant Viral Hepatitis     
16 
Kidney failure requiring regular 
dialysis     
17 Loss of independent existence     
18 Loss of limbs     
19 Loss of speech     
20 Major head trauma     
21 
Major organ /bone marrow 
transplant     
22 Medullary Cystic Kidney Disease     
23 
Motor neuron disease with 
permanent symptoms     
24 
Multiple sclerosis with persisting 
symptoms     
25 Muscular Dystrophy     
26 Myocardial infarction     
27 Nephrotic syndrome     

--- PAGE 115 ---

 
Health Plus   
 
Health Plus         UIN: NBHHLGP22157V032122 
 
 
Internal 
28 Open chest CABG     
29 
Open heart replacement or repair of 
heart valves     
30 Parkinson’s Disease     
31 Permanent paralysis of limbs     
32 Pituitary apoplexy in pregnancy     
33 Pneumonectomy     
34 
Primary (idiopathic) pulmonary 
hypertension     
35 Progressive Scleroderma     
36 Severe Rheumatoid Arthritis     
37 
Stroke resulting in permanent 
symptoms     
38 
Systematic Lupus Erythematous 
with Renal Involvement     
39 Third degree burns     
40 Uterine inversion     
41 Uterine Rupture     
 
* We will not make payment under the Section 2.7 (Critical Illness) in respect of an Insured Person and for any 
and all Policy period/ Coverage Period more than once in the Insured Person’s lifetime. In any Policy period/ 
Coverage Period a claim can be triggered fo r one life only except in co -applicants/ spouse option wherein claim 
can be triggered for both the lives in the same Policy period/ Coverage Period. 

--- PAGE 116 ---

 
Health Plus   
 
Health Plus         UIN: NBHHLGP22157V032122 
 
 
Internal 
ANNEXURE III- 
EXPENSES NOT COVERED OR SUBSUMED INTO ROOM CHARGES / PROCEDURE CHARGES / COSTS OF 
TREATMENT 
 
List  I – Expenses not covered 
 
Sl. No. Item 
1 BABY FOOD 
2 BABY UTILITIES CHARGES 
3 BEAUTY SERVICES 
4 BELTS/ BRACES 
5 BUDS 
6 COLD PACK/HOT PACK 
7 CARRY BAGS 
8 EMAIL / INTERNET CHARGES 
9 FOOD CHARGES (OTHER THAN PATIENT's DIET PROVIDED BY HOSPITAL) 
10 LEGGINGS 
11 LAUNDRY CHARGES 
12 MINERAL WATER 
13 SANITARY PAD  
14 TELEPHONE CHARGES 
15 GUEST SERVICES 
16 CREPE BANDAGE 
17 DIAPER OF ANY TYPE 
18 EYELET COLLAR 
19 SLINGS 
20 BLOOD GROUPING AND CROSS MATCHING OF DONORS SAMPLES 
21 SERVICE CHARGES WHERE NURSING CHARGE ALSO CHARGED 
22 TELEVISION CHARGES 
23 SURCHARGES 
24 ATTENDANT CHARGES 
25 EXTRA DIET OF PATIENT (OTHER THAN THAT WHICH FORMS PART OF BED CHARGE) 
26 BIRTH CERTIFICATE 
27 CERTIFICATE CHARGES 
28 COURIER CHARGES 
29 CONVEYANCE CHARGES 
30 MEDICAL CERTIFICATE 
31 MEDICAL RECORDS 
32 PHOTOCOPIES CHARGES 
33 MORTUARY CHARGES  
34 WALKING AIDS CHARGES 
35 OXYGEN CYLINDER (FOR USAGE OUTSIDE THE HOSPITAL)  
36 SPACER  
37 SPIROMETRE  
38 NEBULIZER KIT 
39 STEAM INHALER 
40 ARMSLING 
41 THERMOMETER 
42 CERVICAL COLLAR 

--- PAGE 117 ---

 
Health Plus   
 
Health Plus         UIN: NBHHLGP22157V032122 
 
 
Internal 
 
List II – Items that are to be subsumed into Room Charges 
 
43 SPLINT 
44 DIABETIC FOOT WEAR 
45 KNEE BRACES (LONG/ SHORT/ HINGED)  
46 KNEE IMMOBILIZER/SHOULDER IMMOBILIZER 
47 LUMBO SACRAL BELT 
48 NIMBUS BED OR WATER OR AIR BED CHARGES 
49 AMBULANCE COLLAR 
50 AMBULANCE EQUIPMENT 
51 ABDOMINAL BINDER 
52 PRIVATE NURSES CHARGES- SPECIAL NURSING CHARGES  
53  SUGAR FREE Tablets 
54 CREAMS POWDERS LOTIONS (Toiletries are not payable, only prescribed medical pharmaceuticals 
payable) 
55 ECG ELECTRODES 
56 GLOVES 
57 NEBULISATION KIT 
58 ANY KIT WITH NO DETAILS MENTIONED [DELIVERY KIT, ORTHOKIT, RECOVERY KIT, ETC] 
59 KIDNEY TRAY 
60 MASK  
61 OUNCE GLASS 
62 OXYGEN MASK 
63 PELVIC TRACTION BELT  
64 PAN CAN 
65 TROLLY COVER 
66 UROMETER, URINE JUG 
67 AMBULANCE 
68 VASOFIX SAFETY 
Sl. No. Item 
1 BABY CHARGES (UNLESS SPECIFIED/INDICATED) 
2 HAND WASH 
3 SHOE COVER 
4 CAPS 
5 CRADLE CHARGES 
6 COMB 
7 EAU-DE-COLOGNE / ROOM FRESHNERS 
8 FOOT COVER 
9 GOWN 
10 SLIPPERS  
11 TISSUE PAPER 
12 TOOTH PASTE 
13 TOOTH BRUSH 
14 BED PAN 
15 FACE MASK 
16 FLEXI MASK 
17 HAND HOLDER 
18 SPUTUM CUP  

--- PAGE 118 ---

 
Health Plus   
 
Health Plus         UIN: NBHHLGP22157V032122 
 
 
Internal 
 
List III – Items that are to be subsumed into Procedure Charges 
 
 
List IV – Items that are to be subsumed into costs of treatment 
 
19 DISINFECTANT LOTIONS 
20 LUXURY TAX 
21 HVAC 
22 HOUSE KEEPING CHARGES 
23 AIR CONDITIONER CHARGES 
24 IM IV INJECTION CHARGES  
25 CLEAN SHEET 
26 BLANKET/WARMER BLANKET 
27 ADMISSION KIT 
28 DIABETIC CHART CHARGES 
29 DOCUMENTATION CHARGES / ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES 
30 DISCHARGE PROCEDURE CHARGES 
31 DAILY CHART CHARGES 
32 ENTRANCE PASS / VISITORS PASS CHARGES 
33 EXPENSES RELATED TO PRESCRIPTION ON DISCHARGE 
34 FILE OPENING CHARGES 
35 INCIDENTAL EXPENSES / MISC. CHARGES (NOT EXPLAINED) 
36 PATIENT IDENTIFICATION BAND / NAME TAG 
37 PULSEOXYMETER CHARGES 
Sl. No. Item 
1 HAIR REMOVAL CREAM 
2 DISPOSABLES RAZORS CHARGES (for site preparations) 
3 EYE PAD 
4 EYE SHEILD 
5 CAMERA COVER 
6 DVD, CD CHARGES 
7 GAUSE SOFT 
8 GAUZE 
9 WARD AND THEATRE BOOKING CHARGES 
10 ARTHROSCOPY AND ENDOSCOPY INSTRUMENTS 
11 MICROSCOPE COVER  
12 SURGICAL BLADES, HARMONICSCALPEL,SHAVER 
13 SURGICAL DRILL 
14 EYE KIT  
15 EYE DRAPE 
16 X-RAY FILM 
17 BOYLES APPARATUS CHARGES 
18 COTTON 
19 COTTON BANDAGE 
20 SURGICAL TAPE 
21 APRON 
22 TORNIQUET  
23 ORTHOBUNDLE, GYNAEC BUNDLE 

--- PAGE 119 ---

 
Health Plus   
 
Health Plus         UIN: NBHHLGP22157V032122 
 
 
Internal 
Sl. No. Item 
1 ADMISSION/REGISTRATION CHARGES 
2 HOSPITALISATION FOR EVALUATION/ DIAGNOSTIC PURPOSE 
3 URINE CONTAINER 
4 BLOOD RESERVATION CHARGES AND ANTE NATAL BOOKING CHARGES 
5 BIPAP MACHINE 
6 CPAP/ CAPD EQUIPMENTS 
7 INFUSION PUMP– COST 
8 HYDROGEN PEROXIDE\SPIRIT\ DISINFECTANTS ETC 
9 NUTRITION PLANNING CHARGES - DIETICIAN CHARGES- DIET CHARGES  
10 HIV KIT 
11 ANTISEPTIC MOUTHWASH 
12 LOZENGES 
13 MOUTH PAINT 
14 VACCINATION CHARGES 
15 ALCOHOL SWABES 
16 SCRUB SOLUTION/STERILLIUM 
17 GLUCOMETER & STRIPS 
18 URINE BAG 

--- PAGE 120 ---

 
Health Plus   
 
Health Plus         UIN: NBHHLGP22157V032122 
 
 
Internal 
ANNEXURE IV  
List of Health Check Ups 
 
 
 
  


--- PAGE 121 ---

 
Health Plus   
 
Health Plus         UIN: NBHHLGP22157V032122 
 
 
Internal 
 
Annexure V 
List of covered vaccinations 
Time interval  Vaccination to be done (Age) Frequency 
0-3 months 
BCG (From birth to 1 weeks)  1 
OPV (1 week) + IPV1 (6 week,10 weeks)  3 
DPT (6& 10 week) 2 
Hepatitis-B (0 & 6 week,) 2 
Haemophilusinfluenzae type B (Hib) (6 & 10 Week) 2 
Rota (6 & 10 Week) 2 
3-6 months 
OPV (6 month) + IPV (14 week)  2 
DPT (14 week) 1 
Hepatitis-B (6 month) 1 
Haemophilusinfluenzae type B (Hib) (14 week) 1 
Rota (14 week) 1 
9 months 
MMR ( 9 Months) 1 
OPV (9 Months) 1 
12 months 
Typhoid(12 Months) 1 
Hepatitis A (12 Months) 1 
 
 
  

--- PAGE 122 ---

 
Health Plus   
 
Health Plus         UIN: NBHHLGP22157V032122 
 
 
Internal 
Annexure VI 
List of Named Illnesses 
 
Air Borne Communicable Disease 
S. No. Disease 
1 Pulmonary Tuberculosis 
2 Avian Flu (H5 N1) 
3 Swine Flu  
4 Meningitis 
 
Water Borne Communicable Disease 
S. No. Disease 
1 Cholera 
2 Infectious Hepatitis- A&E 
3 Gastroenteritis 
4 Typhoid 
 
Vector Borne Communicable Disease 
S.No. Disease 
1 Malaria 
2 Dengue 
3 Chikungunya 
4 Japanese Encephalitis 
5 Lymphatic Filariasis 
 
Common Surgical Procedure 
S.No. System Procedure 
1 Cardiology Angiography (Day Care) 
2 Cardiology Pacemaker Implantation (temporary 
/permanent) including cost of implant 
4 Cardiology EPS and RFA 
      
  
5 Dental Surgery Impacted Wisdom Tooth extraction (one tooth 
per year) 
      
  
6 E.N.T Tonsillectomy 
7 E.N.T Adenotonsillectomy 
8 E.N.T Tympanoplasty (unilateral/bilateral) 
11 E.N.T Nasal Polyps/ Sinusitis (FESS)- 
( Unilateral/Bilateral) 

--- PAGE 123 ---

 
Health Plus   
 
Health Plus         UIN: NBHHLGP22157V032122 
 
 
Internal 
12 E.N.T Cortical Mastoidectomy With/without 
Myringoplasty (unilateral/bilateral) 
14 E.N.T Septoplasty with or without Turbinoplasty 
(unilateral/bilateral) 
15 E.N.T Myringotomy with Grommet insertion 
(unilateral/bilateral) 
      
  
16 General Surgery Haemorrhoidectomy with/without fissurectomy 
including  cost of stapler 
20 General Surgery Appendicectomy (Lap) 
21 General Surgery Cholecystectomy (Lap) 
22 General Surgery Excision Of Pilonidal Sinus With Flap Cover 
23 General Surgery Mastectomy 
25 General Surgery Thyroidectomy (Total/Subtotal) 
26 General Surgery Herniorraphy/Hernioplasty- Unilateral /Bilateral 
(including cost of tacker and mesh) 
29 General Surgery Circumcision (medically necessary) 
31 General Surgery Lumpectomy 
32 General Surgery AV Fistula 
33 General Surgery Hydrocele  
34 General Surgery Right or left Hemi Colectomy  
35 General Surgery Exploratory Laparotomy 
37 General Surgery Varicose Veins(surgical or laser) 
      
  
38 Neurology VP Shunting 
      
  
39 Obstetrics & Gynecology Laparoscopic Hysterectomy 
(Abdominal/Vaginal) 
40 Obstetrics & Gynecology Ovarian Cystectomy or Ovarian Drilling 
(laproscopic or conventional) 
41 Obstetrics & Gynecology Dilatation & Curettage (D&C) 
42 Obstetrics & Gynecology Vaginal-Vault Prolapse Repair 
44 Obstetrics & Gynecology Myomectomy 
45 Obstetrics & Gynecology Surgery for Ectopic pregnancy 
      
  
46 Ophthalmology Cataract including cost of lens 
(unilateral/bilateral) 
47 Ophthalmology Retinal Detatchment Correction 
(unilateral/bilateral) 
48 Ophthalmology Vitrectomy  (unilateral/bilateral) 
      

--- PAGE 124 ---

 
Health Plus   
 
Health Plus         UIN: NBHHLGP22157V032122 
 
 
Internal 
  
54 Orthopaedics Fracture Neck Femur (Bipolar 
Arthroplasty/Multiple Screw Fixation including 
cost of implant 
56 Orthopaedics Arthroscopic surgery of  knee ( Other Than 
ACL) / Menisectomy)  (unilateral/bilateral) 
57 Orthopaedics ACL Reconstruction  (unilateral/bilateral) 
58 Orthopaedics Stabilization of spinal column including cost of 
implant 
59 Orthopaedics Carpal Tunnel Release  (unilateral/bilateral) 
60 Orthopaedics Fracture of any kind requiring Closed 
Reduction and Internal Fixation / Open 
Reduction and Internal Fixation 
63 Orthopaedics MCL Reconstruction/Repair  
(unilateral/bilateral) 
64 Orthopaedics Reduction of dislocation under general 
anesthesia ( including cost of implant is any) 
      
  
65 Urology  Removal of renal stones 
67 Urology  Meatotomy 
69 Urology  TURP 
71 Urology  Orchidectomy  (unilateral/bilateral) 
      
  
72 Urology  & Nephrology Nephrectomy/Nephrolithotomy/Pyelolithotomy  
(unilateral/bilateral) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

--- PAGE 125 ---

 
Health Plus   
 
Health Plus         UIN: NBHHLGP22157V032122 
 
 
Internal 
Annexure VII 
List for Sub-limits 
 
  


--- PAGE 126 ---

 
Health Plus   
 
Health Plus         UIN: NBHHLGP22157V032122 
 
 
Internal 
Annexure VIII 
List of Prosthetics