--- PAGE 1 ---

UIN: NIAHLIP22025V012223       Page 1 of 48 
YUVA BHARAT HEALTH POLICY 
THE NEW INDIA ASSURANCE CO. LTD. 
REGISTERED & HEAD OFFICE: 87, MAHATMA GANDHI ROAD, MUMBAI 400001 
             
YUVA BHARAT HEALTH POLICY 
POLICY CLAUSE 
1. PREAMBLE 
 
This is Your “ Yuva Bharat Health Policy”, which has been issued by Us , relying on the information 
disclosed by You in Your Proposal for this Policy or its preceding Policy/Policies of which this is a 
renewal.  
 
The terms and conditions set out in this Policy and its Schedule will be the basis for any claim and/or 
benefit under this Policy.  
 
Please read this Policy carefully and point out discrepancy, if any, in the Schedule. Otherwise, it will 
be presumed that the Policy and the Schedule correctly represent the cover agreed upon.  
 
If during the Period of Insurance, You or any Insured Person incurs Hospitalisation Expenses which 
are Reasonable and Customary, and Medically Necessary for treatment of any Illness or Injury, We 
will reimburse such expense incurred by You in the manner stated herein. 
 
The Coverages for Base, Gold and Platinum Plans are as under. 
 
1. Base Plan – Clauses applicable are 3.1 to 3.16. 
Hospitalisation Expenses  Specific Coverages 
Medical Expenses For Organ Transplant Coverage For Modern Treatments Or Procedures 
Hospital Cash Cost Of Health Check-Up 
Road Ambulance Charges Medical Second Opinion 
Treatment For Congenital Diseases Reinstatement Of Sum Insured 
Coverage For Cataract Treatments Under Ayurvedic / Homeopathic / Unani 
Systems 
Coverage For Hazardous Sports New Born Baby Coverage 
 
2. Gold Plan covers the following in addition to the coverages mentioned in Base Plan.  Clauses 
applicable are 3.1 to 3.20. 
Critical Care Benefit Air Ambulance Charges 
Personal Accident Benefit Auto TOP-UP  
 
3. Platinum Plan covers the following in addition to the coverages mentioned Gold Plan. 
Clauses applicable are 3.1 to 3.24. 
 
Maternity Coverage Infertility Treatment 
Well baby Cover Birth Right Benefit 
 
Note: Enhanced Maternity Limit is available at an additional premium. 

--- PAGE 2 ---

UIN: NIAHLIP22025V012223       Page 2 of 48 
YUVA BHARAT HEALTH POLICY 
Conditions:  
 Coverages/Benefits under various Plans are subject to waiting periods of the respective plan 
opted by the Insured at the time of Inception or Renewal. 
 Change of Plan is available at the time of Renewal only. 
 If there is any change in one plan to another plan at the time of Renewal, Waiting Period shall 
be applicable as per the Plan chosen. 
The nature, scope and extent of coverage will depend on the Plan opted as mentioned in the Schedule.   
 
2. DEFINITIONS 
STANDARD DEFINITIONS 
2.1 ACCIDENT means a sudden, unforeseen and involuntary event caused by external, visible and 
violent means. 
2.2 ANY ONE ILLNESS means continuous Period of Illness and it includes relapse within 45 days 
from the date of last consultation with the Hospital where treatment may have been taken. 
2.3 AYUSH HOSPITAL is a Healthcare facility wherein medical / surgical / para -surgical treatment 
procedures and interventions are carried out by AYUSH Medical Practitioner(s) comprising of 
any of the following: 
a. Central or State Government AYUSH Hospital or 
b. Teaching hospital  attached to AYUSH College recognized by the Central Government / 
Central Council of Indian Medicine / Central Council for Homeopathy; or 
c. AYUSH Hospital, standalone or co -located with in -patient healthcare facility of any 
recognized system of medicine, registered with the local authorities, wherever applicable, 
and is under the supervision of a qualified registered AYUSH Medical Practitioner and must 
comply with all the following criterion: 
i. Having at least 5 in-patient beds; 
ii. Having qualified AYUSH Medical Practitioner in charge round the clock; 
iii. Having dedicated AYUSH therapy sections as required and/or has equipped 
operation theatre where surgical procedures are to be carried out;  
iv. Maintaining daily records of the patients and making them accessible to the 
insurance Company’s authorized representatives. 
2.4 AYUSH DAY CARE CENTRE means and includes Community Health Centre (CHC), Primary Health 
Centre (PHC), Dispensary, Clinic, Polyclinic or any such health centre which is registered with 
the local authorities, wh erever applicable and having facilities for carrying out treatment 
procedures and medical or surgical/para -surgical interventions or both under the supervision 
of registered AYUSH Medical Practitioner(s) on day care basis without in -patient services and 
must comply with all the following criterion: 
i. Having qualified registered AYUSH Medical Practitioner(s) in charge;  
ii. Having dedicated AYUSH therapy sections as required and/or has equipped operation       
theatre where surgical procedures are to be carried out; 

--- PAGE 3 ---

UIN: NIAHLIP22025V012223       Page 3 of 48 
YUVA BHARAT HEALTH POLICY 
iii. Maintaining daily records of the patients and making them accessible to the insurance 
company’s authorized representative. 
2.5 CASHLESS FACILITY means a facility extended by Us to You where the payments, of the costs of 
treatment undergone by You  in accordance with the policy terms and conditions, are directly 
made to the Network provider by Us to the extent of pre-authorization approved. 
2.6 CONDITION PRECEDENT means a Policy term or condition upon which Our liability under the 
Policy is conditional upon 
2.7 CONGENITAL ANOMALY  refers to a condition(s) which is present since birth, and which is 
abnormal with reference to form, structure or position. 
i. CONGENITAL INTERNAL ANOMALY means a Congenital Anomaly which is not in the visible 
and accessible parts of the body. 
ii. CONGENITAL EXTERNAL ANOMALY means a Congenital Anomaly which is in the visible 
and accessible parts of the body. 
2.8 CRITICAL ILLNESSES mean the following Illnesses: 
2.8.1 CANCER OF SPECIFIED SEVERITY means 
I. A malignant tumour characterized by the uncontrolled growth and spread of malignant cells 
with invasion and destruction of normal tissues. This diagnosis must be supported by 
histological evidence of malignancy. The term cancer includes leukaemia, lymphoma  and 
sarcoma. 
II. The following are excluded - 
i. All tumors which are histologically described as carcinoma in situ, benign, pre -
malignant, borderline malignant, low malignant potential, neoplasm of unknown 
behavior, or non -invasive, including but not limited to : Carcinoma in situ of breasts, 
Cervical dysplasia CIN-1, CIN-2 and CIN-3. 
ii. Any non-melanoma skin carcinoma unless there is evidence of metastases to lymph 
nodes or beyond. 
iii. Malignant melanoma that has not caused invasion beyond the epidermis. 
iv. All tumors of the prostate unless histologically classified as having a Gleason score 
greater than 6 or having progressed to at least clinical TNM classification T2N0M0 
v. All Thyroid cancers histologically classified as T1N0M0 (TNM Classification) or below; 
vi. Chronic lymphocytic leukaemia less than RAI stage 3 
vii. Non-invasive papillary cancer of the bladder histologically described as TaN0M0 or of 
a lesser classification, 
viii. All Gastro -Intestinal Stromal Tumors histologically classified as T1N0M0 (TNM 
Classification) or below and with mitotic count of less than or equal to 5/50 HPFs; 
ix. All tumors in the presence of HIV infection. 
2.8.2 MYOCARDIAL INFARCTION (FIRST HEART ATTACK OF SPECIFIED SEVERITY) 
I. The first occurrence of heart attack or myocardial infarction, which means the death of a 
portion of the heart muscle as a result of inadequate blood supply to the relevant area. The 

--- PAGE 4 ---

UIN: NIAHLIP22025V012223       Page 4 of 48 
YUVA BHARAT HEALTH POLICY 
diagnosis for Myocardial Infarction should be evidenced by all of the following criteria: 
i. a history of typical clinical symptoms consistent with the diagnosis of Acute Myocardial 
Infarction (for e.g. typical chest pain) 
ii. New characteristic electrocardiogram changes 
iii. Elevation of infarction specific enzymes, Troponins or other spe cific biochemical 
markers. 
II. The following are excluded: 
i. Other acute Coronary Syndromes 
ii. Any type of angina pectoris. 
iii. A rise in cardiac biomarkers or Troponin T or I in absence of overt ischemic heart 
disease OR following an intra-arterial cardiac procedure. 
2.8.3 OPEN CHEST CABG 
I. The actual undergoing of heart surgery to correct blockage or narrowing in one or more 
coronary artery(s), by coronary artery bypass grafting done via a sternotomy (cutting 
through the breast bone) or minimally invasive keyhole coronary artery bypass procedures. 
The diagnosis must be supported by a coronary angiography and the realization of surgery 
has to be confirmed by a cardiologist. 
II. The following are excluded: 
i. Angioplasty and/or any other intra-arterial procedures 
2.8.4 OPEN HEART REPLACEMENT OR REPAIR OF HEART VALVES 
I. The actual undergoing of open-heart valve Surgery is to replace or repair one or more heart 
valves, as a consequence of defects in, abnormalities of, or disease-affected cardiac valve(s). 
The diagnosis of the valve abnormality must be supported by an echocardiography and the 
realization of Surgery has to be confirmed by a specialist Medical Practitioner. Catheter 
based techniques including but not limited to, balloon valvotomy/valvuloplasty are 
excluded. 
2.8.5 COMA OF SPECIFIED SEVERITY 
I. A state of unconsciousness with no reaction or response to external stimuli or internal 
needs. This diagnosis must be supported by evidence of all of the following: 
i. No response to external stimuli continuously for at least 96 hours; 
ii. Life support measures are necessary to sustain life; and 
iii. Permanent neurological deficit which must be assessed at least 30 days after the onset 
of the coma. 
II. The condition has to be confirmed  by a specialist Medical Practitioner. Coma resulting 
directly from alcohol or drug abuse is excluded. 
2.8.6 KIDNEY FAILURE REQUIRING REGULAR DIALYSIS 
I. End stage renal disease presenting as chronic irreversible failure of both kidneys to function, 
as a result of which either regular renal dialysis (haemodialysis or peritoneal dialysis) is 

--- PAGE 5 ---

UIN: NIAHLIP22025V012223       Page 5 of 48 
YUVA BHARAT HEALTH POLICY 
instituted or renal transplantation is carried out. Diagnosis has to be confirmed by a 
specialist Medical Practitioner. 
2.8.7 STROKE RESULTING IN PERMANENT SYMPTOMS 
I. Any cerebrovascular  incident producing permanent neurological sequelae. This includes 
infarction of brain tissue, thrombosis in an intracranial vessel, haemorrhage and 
emobilisation from an extracranial source. Diagnosis has to be confirmed by a specialist 
Medical Practitioner and evidenced by typical clinical symptoms as well as typical findings 
in CT scan or MRI of the brain. Evidence of permanent neurological deficit lasting for at least 
3 months has to be produced 
II. The following are excluded: 
i. Transient ischemic attacks (TIA) 
ii. Traumatic injury of the brain 
iii. Vascular disease affecting only the eye or optic nerve or vestibular functions. 
2.8.8 MAJOR ORGAN /BONE MARROW TRANSPLANT 
I. The actual undergoing of a transplant of: 
i. One of the following human organs: heart, lung, liver, kidney, pancreas, that resulted 
from irreversible end-stage failure of the relevant organ, or 
ii. Human bone marrow using haematopoietic stem cells. The undergoing of a transplant 
has to be confirmed by a specialist Medical Practitioner. 
II. The following are excluded: 
i. Other stem-cell transplants 
ii. Where only islets of Langerhans are transplanted 
2.8.9 PERMANENT PARALYSIS OF LIMBS 
I. Total and irreversible loss of use of two or more limbs as a result of injury or disease of the 
brain or spinal cord. A specialist Medical Practitioner must be of the opinion that the 
paralysis will be permanent with no hope of recovery and must be present for more than 3 
months. 
2.8.10 MOTOR NEURONE DISEASE WITH PERMANENT SYMPTOMS 
I. Motor neurone disease diagnosed by a specialist Medical Practitioner as spinal mu scular 
atrophy, progressive bulbar palsy, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis or primary lateral sclerosis. 
There must be progressive degeneration of cortico spinal tracts and anterior horn cells or 
bulbar efferent neurons. There must be current significant and permanent functional 
neurological impairment with objective evidence of motor dysfunction that has persisted 
for a continuous period of at least 3 months. 
2.8.11 MULTIPLE SCLEROSIS WITH PERSISTING SYMPTOMS 
I. The definite occurrence of multiple sclerosis. The diagnosis must be supported by all of the 
following: 

--- PAGE 6 ---

UIN: NIAHLIP22025V012223       Page 6 of 48 
YUVA BHARAT HEALTH POLICY 
i. Investigations including typical MRI and CSF findings, which unequivocally confirm the 
diagnosis to be multiple sclerosis and 
ii. There must be current clinical impairment of motor or sensory function, which must 
have persisted for a continuous period of at least 6 months 
II.  Other causes of neurological damage such as SLE and HIV are excluded. 
2.8.12 THIRD DEGREE BURNS 
There must be third-degree burns with scarring that cover at least 20% of the body’s surface 
area. The diagnosis must confirm the total area involved using standardized, clinically 
accepted, body surface area charts covering 20% of the body surface area. 
 
2.8.13 MAJOR HEAD TRAUMA 
I. Accidental head injury resulting in permanent Neurological deficit to be assessed no sooner 
than 3 months from the date of the accident. This diagnosis must be supported by unequivocal 
findings on Magnetic Resonance Imaging, Computerized Tomography, or other reliable 
imaging techniques. The accident must be caused solely and directly by ac cidental, violent, 
external and visible means and independently of all other causes. 
II. The Accidental Head injury must result in an inability to perform at least three (3) of the 
following Activities of Daily Living either with or without the use of mechanic al equipment, 
special devices or other aids and adaptations in use for disabled persons. For the purpose of 
this benefit, the word “permanent” shall mean beyond the scope of recovery with current 
medical knowledge and technology. 
III. The Activities of Daily Living are: 
a. Washing: the ability to wash in the bath or shower (including getting into and out of 
the bath or shower) or wash satisfactorily by other means; 
b. Dressing: the ability to put on, take off, secure and unfasten all garments and, as 
appropriate, any braces, artificial limbs or other surgical appliances; 
c. Transferring: the ability to move from a bed to an upright chair or wheelchair and vice 
versa;  
d. Mobility: the ability to move indoors from room to room on level surfaces; 
e. Toileting: the ability to use the lavatory or otherwise manage bowel and bladder 
functions so as to maintain a satisfactory level of personal hygiene;  
f. Feeding: the ability to feed oneself once food has been prepared and made available. 
IV. The following are excluded: 
 Spinal cord injury; 
2.8.14 END STAGE LUNG FAILURE 
 
End stage lung disease, causing chronic respiratory failure, as confirmed and evidenced by all 
of the following: 
a. FEV1 test results consistently less than 1 litre measured on 3 occasions 3 months 
apart; and 
b. Requiring continuous permanent supplementary oxygen therapy for hypoxemia; and 
c. Arterial blood gas analysis with partial oxygen pressure of 55mmHg or less (PaO2 < 
55mmHg); and  
d. Dyspnea at rest. 
 
2.8.15 END STAGE LIVER FAILURE 
I. Permanent and irreversible failure of liver function that has re sulted in all three of  the 
following: 

--- PAGE 7 ---

UIN: NIAHLIP22025V012223       Page 7 of 48 
YUVA BHARAT HEALTH POLICY 
a. Permanent jaundice; and 
b. Ascites; and 
c. Hepatic encephalopathy. 
II. Liver failure secondary to drug or alcohol abuse is excluded. 
 
2.9 CO-PAYMENT is a cost-sharing requirement under a health insurance policy that provides that 
the Insured Person will bear a specified percentage of the admissible claim amount. A co -
payment does not reduce the Sum Insured. 
 
2.10 CUMULATIVE BONUS means any increase or addition in the Sum Insured granted by the insurer 
without an associated increase in premium.             
2.11 DAY CARE CENTRE means any institution established for day care treatment of Illness or Injury, 
or a medical set-up within a Hospital and which has been registered with the local authorities, 
wherever applicable, and is under the supervision of a registered and qualified Medical 
Practitioner AND must comply with all minimum criteria as under: 
- has qualified nursing staff under its employment 
- has qualified Medical Practitioner(s) in charge 
- has a fully equipped operation theatre of its own where Surgery is carried out   
- maintains daily records of patients and will make these accessible to the Insurance Company’s 
authorized personnel. 
2.12 DAY CARE TREATMENT refers to medical treatment or Surgery which are: 
- undertaken under general or local anesthesia in a Hospital / Day Care Centre in less than 24 
hours because of technological advancement, and 
- which would have otherwise required a Hospitalisation of more than 24 hours.  
Treatment normally taken on an out-patient basis is not included in the scope of this definition. 
2.13 DENTAL TREATMENT is treatment carried out by a dental practitioner including examinations, 
fillings (where appropriate), crowns, extractions and Surgery. 
2.14 DISCLOSURE TO INFORMATION NORM: The policy shall be void and all premium paid thereon 
shall be forfeited to Us in the event of misrepresentation, mis-description or non-disclosure of 
any material fact. 
2.15 DOMICILIARY HOSPITALIZATION means medical treatment for an illness/disease/injury which 
in the normal course would require care and treatment at a hospital but is actually taken while 
confined at home under any of the following circumstances:  
i. the condition of the patient is such that he /she is not in a condition to be removed to a 
hospital, or 
ii. the patient takes treatment at home on account of non-availability of room in a hospital 

--- PAGE 8 ---

UIN: NIAHLIP22025V012223       Page 8 of 48 
YUVA BHARAT HEALTH POLICY 
2.16 EMERGENCY CARE means management for an Illness or Injury which results in symptoms which 
occur suddenly and unexpectedly, and requires immediate care by a medical practitioner to 
prevent death or serious long-term impairment of the Insured Person’s health. 
2.17 GRACE PERIOD means specified period of time  immediately following the premium due date 
during which a payment can be made to renew or continue the Policy in force without loss of 
continuity benefits such as waiting period and coverage of pre -existing diseases. Coverage is 
not available for the period for which no premium is received. 
2.18 HOSPITAL means any institution established for Inpatient Care and Day Care Treatment of 
Illness or Injury and which has been registered as a Hospital with the local authorities under the 
Clinical Establishment (Registration and Regulation) Act, 2010 or under the enactments 
specified under the schedule of Section 56(1) of the said act OR complies with all minimum 
criteria as under: 
- Has qualified nursing staff under its employment round the clock; 
- Has at least 10 Inpatient beds in towns having a population of less than 10,00,000 and at least 
15 In-patient beds in all other places; 
- Has qualified Medical Practitioner(s) in charge round the clock; 
- Has a fully equipped operation theatre of its own where Surgery is carried out; 
- Maintains daily records of patients and makes these accessible to the insurance company’s 
authorized personnel. 
2.19 HOSPITALISATION means admission as an Inpatient in a Hospital for a minimum period of 24 
consecutive hours except for the procedures/ treatments mentioned in Annexure I, where such 
admission could be for a period of less than 24 consecutive hours. 
Note: Procedures/treatments usually done in outpatient department are not payable under 
the Policy even if converted as an in-patient in the Hospital for more than 24 hours. 
2.20 ILLNESS means a sickness or a disease or pathological condition leading to the impairment of 
normal physiological function which manifests itself during the Policy Period and requires 
medical treatment. 
i. Acute Condition means a disease, illness or injury that is likely to respond quickly to 
treatment which aims to return the person to his or her state of health immediately before 
suffering the disease/ illness/ injury which leads to full recovery. 
ii. Chronic Condition means a disease, illness, or injury that has one or more of the following 
characteristics 
a. it needs ongoing or long-term monitoring through consultations, examinations, check-
ups, and / or tests 
b. it needs ongoing or long-term control or relief of symptoms 
c. it requires rehabilitation for the patient or for the patient to be special trained to cope 
with it 
d. it continues indefinitely 
e. it recurs or is likely to recur 

--- PAGE 9 ---

UIN: NIAHLIP22025V012223       Page 9 of 48 
YUVA BHARAT HEALTH POLICY 
2.21 INJURY means accidental physical bodily harm excluding Illness or disease solely and directly 
caused by external, violent and visible and evident means which is verified and certified by a 
Medical Practitioner. 
2.22 INPATIENT CARE means treatment for which the Insured Person has to stay in a Hospital for 
more than 24 hours for a covered event. 
2.23 INTENSIVE CARE UNIT (ICU) means an identified section, ward or wing of a Hospital which is 
under the constant supervision of a dedicated Medical Practitioner  and which is specially 
equipped for the continuous monitoring and treatment of patients who are in a critical 
condition, or require life support facilities and where the level of care and supervision is 
considerably more sophisticated and intensive than in the ordinary and other wards. 
2.24 ICU (INTENSIVE CARE UNIT) CHARGES means the amount charged by a Hospital towards IC U 
expenses on a per day basis which shall include the expenses for ICU bed, general medical 
support services provided to any ICU patient including monitoring devices, critical care nursing 
and intensivist charges. 
2.25 MEDICAL ADVICE means any consultation or a dvice from a Medical Practitioner including the 
issue of any prescription or follow up prescription. 
2.26 MEDICAL EXPENSES means those expenses that an Insured Person has necessarily and actually 
incurred for medical treatment on account of Illness or Injury on the advice of a Medical 
Practitioner, as long as these are no more than would have been payable, if You had not been 
Insured and no more than other Hospitals or doctors in the same locality would have charged 
for the same medical treatment. 
2.27 MEDICALLY NECESSARY TREATMENT means any treatment, tests, medication, or stay in 
Hospital or part of a stay in Hospital which 
- Is required for the medical management of the Illness or Injury suffered by You; 
- Must not exceed the leve l of care necessary to provide safe, adequate and appropriate 
medical care in scope, duration, or intensity; 
- Must have been prescribed by a Medical Practitioner, 
- Must conform to the professional standards widely accepted in international medical practice 
or by the medical community in India. 
2.28 MEDICAL PRACTITIONER means a person who holds a valid registration from the Medical 
Council of any state or Medical Council of India or Council for Indian Medicine or for 
Homeopathy set up by the Government of India or a State Government and is thereby entitled 
to practice medicine within its jurisdiction; and is acting within the scope and jurisdiction of the 
licence. 
The term Medical Practitioner shall not include any Insured Person or any member of his family. 
2.29 MATERNITY EXPENSES shall mean: 

--- PAGE 10 ---

UIN: NIAHLIP22025V012223       Page 10 of 48 
YUVA BHARAT HEALTH POLICY 
a. Medical Treatment Expenses traceable to childbirth (including complicated deliveries and 
caesarean sections incurred during Hospitalisation), 
b. Expenses towards lawful medical termination of pregnancy during the Policy Period. 
2.30 MEDICAL PRACTITIONER means a person who holds a valid registration from the Medical 
Council of any state or Medical Council of India or Council for Indian Medicine or for 
Homeopathy set up by the Government of India or a State Government and is thereby entitled 
to practice medicine within its jurisdiction; and is acting within the scope and jurisdiction of his 
license. 
The term Medical Practitioner shall not include any Insured Person or any member of his family.  
2.31 NETWORK PROVIDER means Hospitals enlisted by Us, TPA or jointly by Us and TPA to provide 
medical services to an insured by a cashless facility. 
2.32 NON-NETWORK PROVIDER means any hospital that is not part of the network. 
2.33 NEW BORN BABY means a baby born during the Period of Insurance to a female Insured Person. 
2.34 NOTIFICATION OF CLAIM means the process of intimating a claim to Us or TPA through any of 
the recognized modes of communication. 
2.35 PRE-EXISTING DISEASE (PED) means any condition, ailment, Injury or Illness 
a. That is/are diagnosed by a physician within 24 months prior to the effective date of the 
Policy issued by Us and its reinstatement or 
b. For which medical advice or treatment was recommended by, or received from, a physician 
within 24 months prior to the effective date of the Policy or its reinstatement. 
2.36 PRE-HOSPITALISATION MEDICAL EXPENSES means Medical Expenses incurred, for Any One 
Illness, immediately before the Insured Person is Hospitalised, provided that: 
i. Such Medical Expenses are incurred for the same condition for which the Insured Person’s 
Hospitalisation was required, and 
ii. The Inpatient Hospitalisation claim for such Hospitalisation is admissible by Us. 
iii. Such Medical Expenses are incurred not earlier than sixty days before the Date of 
Hospitalisation. 
2.37 POST-HOSPITALISATION MEDICAL EXPENSES means Medical Expenses incurred, for Any One 
Illness, immediately after the Insured Person is discharged from the Hospital, provided that: 
i. Such Medical Expenses are incurred for the same condition for which the Insured Person’s 
Hospitalisation was required, and 
ii. The In-patient Hospitalisation claim for such Hospitalisation is admissible by Us. 
iii. Such Medical Expenses are incurred not later than ninety days after the date of discharge 
from the Hospital. 
2.38 QUALIFIED NURSE means a person who holds a valid registration from the Nursing Council of 
India or the Nursing Council of any state in India. 

--- PAGE 11 ---

UIN: NIAHLIP22025V012223       Page 11 of 48 
YUVA BHARAT HEALTH POLICY 
2.39 REASONABLE AND CUSTOMARY CHARGES mean the charges for services or supplies, which are 
the standard charges for the specific provider and consistent with the prevailing charges in the 
geographical area for identical or similar services, taking into account the nature of the Illness / 
Injury involved. 
2.40 RENEWAL means the terms on which the contract of insurance can be renewed on mutual 
consent with a provision of grace period for treating the renewal continuous for the purpose of 
gaining credit for pre-existing diseases, time-bound exclusions and for all waiting periods. 
2.41  ROOM RENT means the amount charged by a hospital towards Room and Boarding expenses 
and shall include the associated medical expenses. 
2.42 SURGERY OR SURGICAL PROCEDURE means manual or operative procedure required for 
treatment of an Illness or Inju ry, correction of deformities and defects, diagnosis and cure of 
diseases, relief of suffering or prolongation of life, performed in a Hospital or Day Care Centre 
by a Medical Practitioner. 
2.43 UNPROVEN / EXPERIMENTAL TREATMENT is treatment, including drug Experimental therapy, 
which is not based on established medical practice in India, is treatment experimental or 
unproven. 
SPECIFIC DEFINITIONS 
2.44 AGE means age of the Insured person on last birthday as on date of commencement of the 
Policy. 
2.45 ASSOCIATE MEDICAL EXPENSES means medical expenses such as Professional fees of Surgeon, 
Anaesthetist, Consultant, Specialist; Operating Theatre Charges and Procedure Charges such as 
Dialysis, Chemotherapy, Radiotherapy & similar medical expenses related to the treatment. 
2.46 AYUSH TREATMENT  refers to Hospitalisation treatments given under Ayurveda, Yoga and 
Naturopathy, Unani, Siddha and Homeopathy systems. 
2.47 BIRTH RIGHT BENEFIT 
 Autism spectrum disorder (ASD) means a range of complex neurodevelopment disorders, 
characterized by social impairments, communication difficulties, and restricted, repetitive, 
and stereotyped pattern of behaviour. 
 Cerebral Palsy means a group of non -progressive neurological condition affecting body 
movements and muscle coordination, caused by damage to one or more specific areas of 
the brain, usually occurring before, during or shortly after birth. 
 Down's syndrome means a genetic disorder which is typically associated with a delay in 
cognitive ability (mental retardation or MR) a nd physical growth and a particular set of 
facial characteristics. 
2.48 BREAK IN POLICY means the period of gap that occurs at the end of the existing policy term, 
when the premium due for renewal on a given policy is not paid  on or before the premium 
renewal date or within 30 days thereof. 

--- PAGE 12 ---

UIN: NIAHLIP22025V012223       Page 12 of 48 
YUVA BHARAT HEALTH POLICY 
2.49 CANCELLATION defines the terms on which the Policy contract can be terminated either by Us 
or You by giving sufficient notice to other which is not less than a period of fifteen days. 
2.50 CLAIM FREE YEAR means coverage under this Policy for a period of one year during which no 
claim is paid or payable under the terms and conditions of the Policy in respect of any Insured 
Person under any Clause of SECTION III. 
2.51 CONTINUOUS COVERAGE means uninterrupted coverage of the Insured Person with Us, from 
the time the coverage first incepted under this Policy. 
A break in insurance for a period not exceeding thirty days shall not be reckoned as an 
interruption in coverage for the purpose of this Clause. In case of change in Sum Insured during 
such uninterrupted coverage, the lowest Sum Insured would be reckoned for determining 
Continuous Coverage. 
2.52 MENTAL HEALTH ESTABLISHMENT means any health establishment, including Ayurveda, Yoga 
and Naturopathy, Unani, Siddha and Homoeopathy establishment, by whatever name called, 
either wholly or partly, meant for the care of persons with mental illness, established, owned, 
controlled or maintained by the appropriate Government, local authority, trust, whether 
private or public, corporation, co-operative society, organisation or any other entity or person, 
where persons with mental illness are admitted and reside at, or kept in, for care, treatment, 
convalescence and rehabilitation, either temporarily or otherwise ; and includes any general 
hospital or general nursing home established or maintained by the appropriate Government, 
local authority, trust, whether private or public, corporation, co-operative society, organisation 
or any other entity or person; but does not include a family residential place where a person 
with mental illness resides with his relatives or friends; 
2.53 MENTAL HEALTH PROFESSIONAL means  
i. a psychiatrist: means a medical practitioner possessing a post -graduate degree or 
diploma in psychiatry award ed by an university recognised by the University Grants 
Commission established under the University Grants Commission Act, 1956, or 
awarded or recognised by the National Board of Examinations and included in the First 
Schedule to the Indian Medical Council  Act, 1956, or recognised by the Medical 
Council of India, constituted under the Indian Medical Council Act, 1956, and includes, 
in relation to any State, any medical officer who having regard to his knowledge and 
experience in psychiatry, has been declare d by the Government of that State to be a 
psychiatrist for the purposes of this Policy 
ii. a professional registered with the concerned State Authority; (or) 
iii. a professional having a post-graduate degree (Ayurveda) in Mano Vigyan Avum Manas 
Roga or a post -graduate degree (Homoeopathy) in Psychiatry or a post -graduate 
degree (Unani) in Moalijat (Nafasiyatt) or a post -graduate degree (Siddha) in Sirappu 
Maruthuvam 
2.54 INFERTILITY is defined by the failure to achieve a clinical pregnancy after twelve months or more 
of regular unprotected sexual intercourse. 
2.55 INSURED PERSON means You and each of the members who are covered under this Policy as 
shown in the Schedule. 

--- PAGE 13 ---

UIN: NIAHLIP22025V012223       Page 13 of 48 
YUVA BHARAT HEALTH POLICY 
2.56 POLICY means these Policy wordings, the Policy Schedule and any applicable endorsements or 
extensions attaching to or forming part thereof. The Policy contains details of the coverages, 
exclusions and terms & conditions on which the Policy is issued to The Insured Person. 
2.57 POLICY PERIOD means period of one policy year as mentioned in the schedule for which the 
Policy is issued. 
2.58 POLICY SCHEDULE means the Policy Schedule attached to and forming part of Policy. 
2.59 POLICY YEAR means a period of twelve months beginning from the date of commencement of 
the policy period and ending on the last day of such twelve-month period.  
2.60 SUB-LIMIT means a cost sharing requirement under this policy in which We would not be liable 
to pay any amount in excess of the pre-defined limit. 
2.61 SUM INSURED means the amount specified in the Policy Schedule, which represents Our 
maximum, total and cumulative liability for in respect of the Insured Person for any and all 
claims incurred during the policy year. 
Note: Sum Insured as shown in the schedule excluding Cumulative Bonus.  
2.62 TPA (THIRD PARTY ADMINISTRATORS) means a Company registered with the Authority, and 
engaged by an Insurer, for a fee or by whatever name called and as may be mentioned in the 
health services agreement, for providing health services. 
2.63 WAITING PERIOD means a period from the inception of this Policy during which specified 
diseases/treatments are not covered. On completion of the period, diseases/treatments shall 
be covered provided the Policy has been continuously renewed without any break. 
2.64 WE/OUR/US/COMPANY means The New India Assurance Co. Ltd. 
2.65 YOU/YOUR means the person who has taken this Policy and is shown as Insured Person or the 
first Insured Person (if more than one) in the Schedule. 
3.0 HOW MUCH WE WILL REIMBURSE 
SECTION 1: BASE PLAN 
3.1 Our liability for all claims admitted during the Period of Insurance will be only up to Sum Insured 
as mentioned in the Schedule. In respect of those Insured Persons with Cumulative Bonus, Our 
liability for claims admitted under this Policy shall not exceed the aggregate of the Sum Insured 
and the Cumulative Bonus. Subject to this, We will reimburse the following Reasonable and 
Customary, and Medically Necessary Expenses admissible as per the terms and c onditions of 
the Policy: 
3.1 (a) 
Room Rent including Boarding, DMO / RMO / CMO / RMP Charges, Nursing (Including 
Injection / Drugs and Intra venous fluid administration expenses) as provided by the 
hospital 

--- PAGE 14 ---

UIN: NIAHLIP22025V012223       Page 14 of 48 
YUVA BHARAT HEALTH POLICY 
Sum insured of Rs. 5,00,000 /10,00,000/15,00,000 Single AC room 
Sum insured of Rs. 25,00,000 /50,00,000 Deluxe AC room 
3.1 (b) Intensive Care Unit (ICU) / Intensive Cardiac Care Unit (ICCU), Intensivist charges, Monitor 
and Pulse Oxymeter expenses. 
3.1 (c) 
Associate Medical Expenses; such as Professional fees of Surgeon, Anaesthetist, 
Consultant, Specialist; Operating Theatre Charges and Procedure Charges such as Dialysis, 
Chemotherapy, Radiotherapy & similar medical expenses related to the treatment. 
3.1 (d) Cost of Pharmacy and Consumables  including Anaesthesia, Blood, Oxygen , Cost of 
Implants and Medical Devices and Cost of Diagnostics. 
3.1 (e)  Pre-Hospitalization Medical expenses upto 60 days prior to the date of admission to the 
hospital 
3.1 (f)  Post-Hospitalization Medical expenses upto 90 days from the date of discharge from the 
hospital. 
 
Note: 
Dental Treatment (Inpatient):  We will cover for medical expenses incurred towards dental 
treatment done under anaesthesia necessitated due to an accident/injury/illness requiring 
Hospitalization as Inpatient treatment. 
3.2 PROPORTIONATE DEDUCTION 
Proportionate Deduction is applicable on the Associate Medical Expenses, if the Insured Person 
opts for a higher Room than his eligible category. It shall be effected in the same proportion as 
the eligible rate per day bears to the actual rate per day of Room Rent. However, it is not 
applicable on  
1. Cost of Pharmacy and Consumables 
2. Cost of Implants and Medical Devices 
3. Cost of Diagnostics. 
Proportionate Deduction shall also not be applied in respect of Hospitals which do not follow 
differential billing or for those expenses in which differential billing is not adopted based on the 
room category, as evidenced by the Hospital’s schedule of charges / tariff. 
3.3 MEDICAL EXPENSES INCURRED UNDER TWO POLICY PERIODS:  
If the claim event falls within two policy periods, the claims shall be paid taking into 
consideration the available Sum Insured under expiring Policy only. Sum Insured of the Renewed 
Policy will not be considered for the claim event which has commenced in the expiring Policy.  
3.4 MEDICAL EXPENSES FOR ORGAN TRANSPLANT: 
If treatment involves Organ Transplant to Insured Person, then We will also pay Hospitalisation 
Expenses (excluding cost of organ & Pre & Post Hospitalisation Expenses) incurred on the donor, 
provided Our liability towards expenses incurred on the donor and the Insured recipient shall 
not exceed the available Sum Insured.  
3.5 HOSPITAL CASH 

--- PAGE 15 ---

UIN: NIAHLIP22025V012223       Page 15 of 48 
YUVA BHARAT HEALTH POLICY 
We will pay Hospital Cash as per the limits mentioned below for each day of Hospitalisation 
admissible under the Policy. The payment under this Clause shall be for maximum five days for 
Any One Illness.  
The payment under this Clause is applicable only whe re the period of Hospitalisation exceeds 
twenty-four hours. Payment under this Clause will reduce the Sum Insured.  
Hospital cash will be payable for completion of every 24 hours and not part thereof. 
Sum Insured Bands in Rs Hospital Cash Benefit 
5 lakhs, 10 lakhs & 15 lakhs Rs. 500 per day 
25 lakhs Rs. 750 per day 
50 lakhs Rs. 1,000 per day 
3.6 ROAD AMBULANCE CHARGES 
We will pay You the charges incurred towards Ambulance services Reasonably incurred for 
shifting any Insured Person to Hospital for admission, or from one Hospital to another Hospital 
as per the limits mentioned below for Any One Illness.  
Sum Insured Bands in Rs Ambulance charges payable 
5 lakhs, 10 lakhs & 15 lakhs Up  to a maximum of Rs.5,000 
25 lakhs Up to a maximum of Rs.7,500 
50 lakhs Up to a maximum of Rs.10,000 
 
However, if an Insured Person, at the time of discharge from the Hospital, has to be shifted to 
their place of residence in an Ambulance, such expenses will also be reimbursed additionally as 
per the above limits, provided the requirement of an Ambulance is certified by the Medical 
Practitioner. 
3.7 TREATMENT FOR CONGENITAL DISEASES 
Congenital Internal Disease or Defects or anomalies, except those related to Genetic disorders, 
shall be covered upto  Sum Insured, after twelve months of Continuous Coverage, if it is 
unknown to You or to the Insured Person at the commencement of such Continuous Coverage.  
Congenital External Disease or Defects or anomalies shall be covered after twenty four months 
of Continuous Coverage, but such cover for Congenital External Disease or Defects or Anomalies 
shall be limited to 10% of the average Sum Insured in preceding twenty four months. 
3.8 COVERAGE FOR CATARACT 
Our liability for payment of any claim within the Period of Insurance, relating to Cataract for 
each eye / per insured shall not exceed the limits mentioned below. 
Sum Insured Bands in Rs Charges payable 
5 lakhs, 10 lakhs & 15 lakhs Up to a maximum of Rs.50,000 
25 lakhs Up to a maximum of Rs.75,000 
50 lakhs Up to a maximum of Rs.1,00,000 
 

--- PAGE 16 ---

UIN: NIAHLIP22025V012223       Page 16 of 48 
YUVA BHARAT HEALTH POLICY 
3.9 COVERAGE FOR HAZARDOUS SPORTS 
We shall be liable to pay expenses incurred towards treatment of any Injury or Illness arising 
out of the following hazardous sports: 
Bobsledding; Bungee Jumping; Canopying; Hang Gliding; Heli-skiing; Horseback Riding; Jet, 
Snow, and Water Skiing; Kayaking; Martial Arts; Motorcycling; Mountain Biking; Mountain 
Climbing (under 14,000 feet); Paragliding; Parasailing; Safari; Scuba Diving, Skydiving; 
Snowboarding; Snowmobiling; Spelunking; Sur fing; Trekking; White water Rafting; Wind 
Surfing; Zip Lining, Equestrian; Fencing; Rugby. 
We shall reimburse the expenses as per the following limits: 
Sum Insured Amount payable per policy period 
5 lakhs, 10 lakhs & 15 lakhs 10% of Sum insured subject to a maximum 
of Rs.1,00,000 
25 lakhs Up to to a maximum of Rs.1,50,000 
50 lakhs Up to to a maximum of Rs.2,00,000 
 
However, if Injury or Illness is related to particular line of employment or occupation (not for 
recreational purpose), it will be covered up to Sum Insured.  
Payment under this Clause is admissible only if the expenses are incurred in Hospital as In - 
Patient in India. 
3.10 SPECIFIC COVERAGES:  
a) Artificial life maintenance , including life support machine use, where such treatment 
will not result in recovery or restoration of normal state of Health under any 
circumstances. We cover the expenses up to 25% of the Sum Insured and for a 
maximum of 15 days per policy period for covered illness. This sub limit is applicable 
only for person who is declared to be in a vegetative state as certified by the treating 
medical practitioner.  
b) Puberty and Menopause related Disorders:  Treatment for any symptoms, Illness, 
complications arising due to physiological conditions associated with Puberty, 
Menopause such as menopausal bleeding or flushing is covered only as Inpatient 
procedure after 12 months of continuous coverage. This cover will have a sub-limit of 
up to 25% of Sum Insured per policy period. 
c) Age Related Macular Degeneration (ARMD) is covered after 24 months of continuous 
coverage only for Intravitreal Injections and anti - VEGF medication. This cover will 
have a sub-limit of upto a maximum of 20% of sum insured per policy period. 
d) Genetic diseases or disorders are covered with a sub-limit of 25% of Sum Insured per 
policy period with 24 months waiting periods. 
e) Treatment of Mental Illness: The Company shall indemnify the Medical Expenses 
incurred towards treatment of Mental Illness subject to the condition that Treatment 
shall be undertaken at a Hospital categorized as Mental Health Establishment or at a 

--- PAGE 17 ---

UIN: NIAHLIP22025V012223       Page 17 of 48 
YUVA BHARAT HEALTH POLICY 
Hospital with a specific department for Mental Illness, under a Medical Practitioner 
qualified as Mental Health Professional.  
The following Mental Illnesses are covered after  completion of 24 months of 
Continuous Coverage with a sub-limit up to 25% of Sum Insured per policy period.  
ICD Code ICD Code Description 
F01-F09    Mental disorders due to known physiological conditions 
F10-F19    Mental and behavioral disorders due to psychoactive substance use 
F20-F29   
 Schizophrenia, schizotypal, delusional, and other non-mood psychotic 
disorders 
F60-F69    Disorders of adult personality and behavior 
F70-F79 Intellectual disabilities 
 
Exclusion: Any kind of Psychological counselling, cognitive/ family/ group/ behaviour/ 
palliative therapy or psychotherapy shall not be covered. 
3.11 COVERAGE FOR MODERN TREATMENTS OR PROCEDURES : The following procedures will be 
covered (wherever medically indicated) either as in patient or as part of day care treatment in 
a hospital up to the limit specified against each procedure during the policy period. 
S No Treatment or Procedure 
Limit (Per Policy Period) for Sum 
insured bands of 
5/10/15 Lakhs  25 Lakhs  50 Lakhs  
3.11.1 Uterine Artery Embolization and HIFU (High intensity focused 
ultrasound) Upto Rs. 1 L Upto Rs. 
1.5 L 
Upto Rs. 
2 L 
3.11.2 Balloon Sinuplasty Upto Rs. 1 L Upto Rs. 
1.5 L 
Upto Rs. 
2 L 
3.11.3 Deep Brain stimulation Upto Rs. 2 L Upto Rs. 
3.5 L 
Upto Rs. 
5 L 
3.11.4 Oral chemotherapy Upto Rs. 
50,000 
Upto Rs. 
75,000 
Upto Rs. 
1 L 
3.11.5 Immunotherapy- Monoclonal Antibody to be given as injection Upto Rs 1 L Upto Rs. 
2 L 
Upto Rs. 
3 L 
3.11.6 Intravitreal injections Upto Rs. 
75,000 
Upto Rs. 
1 L 
Upto Rs. 
1.5 L 
3.11.7 Robotic surgeries Upto Rs. 2 L Upto Rs. 
3.5 L 
Upto Rs. 
5 L 
3.11.8 Stereotactic radio surgeries Upto Rs. 2 L Upto Rs. 
2.5 L 
Upto Rs. 
3 L 
3.11.9 Bronchial Thermoplasty Upto Rs. 1 L Upto Rs. 
1.5 L 
Upto Rs. 
2 L 
3.11.10 Vaporisation of the prostrate (Green laser treatment or 
holmium laser treatment) Upto Rs. 1 L Upto Rs. 
1.5 L 
Upto Rs. 
2 L 
3.11.11 IONM - (Intra Operative Neuro Monitoring) Upto Rs. 
30,000 
Upto Rs. 
50,000 
Upto Rs. 
75,000 
3.11.12 Stem cell therapy: Hematopoietic stem cells for bone marrow 
transplant for haematological conditions to be covered Upto Rs. 1.5 L Upto 2 L Upto 2.5 
L 
 

--- PAGE 18 ---

UIN: NIAHLIP22025V012223       Page 18 of 48 
YUVA BHARAT HEALTH POLICY 
3.12 COST OF HEALTH CHECK-UP 
The Insured Person(s) shall be entitled for reimbursement of the cost of Medical check-up at the 
end of a block of every two Claim Free Years. Such payment shall be restricted to the limits 
mentioned below. 
Sum Insured Bands in Rs Charges payable 
5 lakhs, 10 lakhs & 15 lakhs Up to a maximum of Rs.3,500 
25 lakhs Up to a maximum of Rs.5,000 
50 lakhs Up to a maximum of Rs.7,000 
Note: 
a) Any payment made under this clause shall not be treated as a Claim. 
b) The unutilized amount under this benefit will not be carried forward. 
c) In case the Policy is issued on an Individual Sum Insured basis, the above limits shall be 
available individually to the Insured Persons. In case the Policy is on Floater Sum Insured 
basis, the above limits shall be available to all Insured persons on a Floater basis. 
 
3.13 MEDICAL SECOND OPINION 
In case of any Insured Person requires to undergo Surgery for any of the Critical Illnesses defined 
under section 2.8 of the Policy Clause, Consultation Expenses incurred on Medical Second 
Opinion shall be reimbursed as per the limits mentioned below.  
Sum Insured Bands in Rs Charges payable 
5 lakhs, 10 lakhs & 15 lakhs Up to a maximum of Rs.5,000 
25 lakhs Up to a maximum of Rs.7,500 
50 lakhs Up to a maximum of Rs.10,000 
 
Note: In case the Policy is issued on an Individual Sum Insured basis, the above limit s shall be 
available individually to the Insured Persons. In case the Policy is on Floater Sum Insured basis, 
the above limits shall be available to all Insured persons on a Floater basis. 
3.14 REINSTATEMENT OF SUM INSURED 
If the Sum Insured is exhausted due to a claim(s) admissible and/or paid under the Policy, then 
the Sum Insured shall be reinstated, subject to the following conditions: 
1. The Reinstatement of Sum Insured shall be upon full utilization of the Sum Insured.  
2. The sequence of utilization of Sum Insured will be as below:  
a. Sum Insured; 
b. Cumulative Bonus (if any);  
c. Reinstated Sum Insured 
3. The Reinstatement of Sum Insured shall be available for illnesses or Injuries other than 
for which Claim is paid or admissible during the Policy Period. 
4. Such Reinstatement shall only be available once in  a Policy Period and only for Policies 
issued on Individual Sum Insured basis.  
5. Reinstatement of Sum Insured is not available for Modern Treatments listed under 3.11 
of the Policy Clause. 

--- PAGE 19 ---

UIN: NIAHLIP22025V012223       Page 19 of 48 
YUVA BHARAT HEALTH POLICY 
6. The unutilized amount will not be carried forward. 
3.15 TREATMENTS UNDER AYURVEDIC / HOMEOPATHIC / UNANI SYSTEMS 
Expenses incurred for Ayurvedic / Homeopathic / Unani Treatment are admissible up to the Sum 
Insured provided the treatment for Illness or Injury, is taken in an Ayush Hospital excluding 
centers for spas, massage and health rejuvenation procedures as an Inpatient. 
3.16 NEW BORN BABY COVERAGE 
Hospitalisation Expenses incurred for a New Born Baby are covered for any Illness or Injury from 
the date of birth till the expiry of this Policy, within the Sum Insured of the Mother. However, 
Expenses incurred towards post-natal care, pre-term or pre-mature care shall not be covered.  
Coverage for the New Born Baby would be available during subsequent renewals provided  the 
child is declared for insurance and premium is paid for the child and covered as an Insured 
Person. 
Note:  New Born Baby means a baby born during the Policy Period to a female Insured Person, 
who has twenty-four months of Continuous Coverage with Us. 
SECTION 2: GOLD PLAN 
Following Coverages are available under this Plan in addition to Base Plan. 
3.17 CRITICAL CARE BENEFIT 
If during the Policy Period, any Insured Person is diagnosed  with of any of the Critical Illness 
defined under Clause of 2.8 of the Policy Document for the first time, Lump Sum amount as 
mentioned below will be paid subject to following conditions. 
Sum Insured Bands in Rs Benefit Payable 
5 lakhs, 10 lakhs & 15 lakhs Rs. 1,00,000 
25 lakhs Rs.1,50,000 
50 lakhs Rs.2,50,000 
Conditions 
 The benefit shall be payable after completion of continuous coverage of 12 months 
under this Plan. 
 This will be paid once in a lifetime of the Insured regardless of the number of critical 
illness suffered. 
 The benefit shall be payable to the Insured Person , provided the Critical Illness is 
diagnosed after the first inception of Policy  or change of Base Plan to Gold  Plan or 
Platinum Plan. On Utilization, no further Sum shall be payable under this section during 
the policy period for other members. 
 The diagnosis of presence of such Critical Illness needs to  be supported by treating 
doctor’s certificate regarding duration of the Critical Illness, clinical , radiological, 
histological, pathological, histo-pathological and laboratory evidence. 
 Any payment under this Clause would be in addition to hospitalisation expenses, if any, 
and shall not deplete the Sum Insured.  

--- PAGE 20 ---

UIN: NIAHLIP22025V012223       Page 20 of 48 
YUVA BHARAT HEALTH POLICY 
3.18 PERSONAL ACCIDENT BENEFIT 
If at any time during the currency of this Policy, the Insured Person shall sustain any bodily injury 
resulting solely and directly from accident caused by external, violent and visible means, then the 
Company shall pay to the Insured or his legal representative(s) or Nominee, as the case may be, 
the sum hereinafter set forth, that is to say: 
 
If such Injury shall within twelve calendar months of its occurrence be the sole and direct cause 
of 
 S No Cover Compensation 
3.18.1 Death  100% of sum insured 
3.18.2 Permanent Total Disablement  100% of sum insured 
3.18.3 Loss of both eyes / Loss of two limbs / Loss of 
one limb and one eye 
100% of sum insured 
3.18.4 Loss of one limb / one eye 50% of sum insured 
 
Note: Permanent Total Disablement means any Injury as a direct consequence thereof, immediately, 
permanently, totally and absolutely, disable the Insured person from engaging in any employment or 
occupation of any description whatsoever, then a lump sum as mentioned above shall be payable. 
 
Conditions:  
a) PA Benefit is applicable for the Insured Persons in the age group of 18-70 Years. 
b) The benefit shall be payable only under any one of the sections stated above. 
c) Personal Accident Benefit  will be equal to that of the Sum Insured as specified i n the Policy 
Schedule. On full Utilization, no further Sum shall be payable under this section during the policy 
period for other members. 
d) Benefit under this section shall not be payable if Death or Disablement is due to engaging in 
Aviation or ballooning or whilst mounting into, dismounting from or traveling in any aircraft 
other than as a passenger (fare paying or otherwise) in any duly licensed standard type of 
aircraft anywhere in the world. 
e) Worldwide Coverage. 
 
3.19 AIR AMBULANCE CHARGES 
We will pay the charges incurred towards Air Ambulance services Reasonably incurred for 
shifting any Insured Person to Hospital for admission, or from one Hospital to another Hospital 
for Any One Illness as per the limits given below.  
Sum Insured Bands in Rs Charges Payable 
5 lakhs, 10 lakhs & 15 lakhs Up to a maximum of Rs. 50,000 
25 lakhs Up to a maximum of Rs. 75,000 
50 lakhs Up to a maximum of Rs. 1,00,000 
 
 

--- PAGE 21 ---

UIN: NIAHLIP22025V012223       Page 21 of 48 
YUVA BHARAT HEALTH POLICY 
3.20 AUTO TOP UP:  
Sum Insured is automatically reinstated up to 10% of the Sum Insured for the treatment of same 
illness or injury for which claim is paid or admissible. 
Conditions 
1. Auto TOP UP shall trigger be upon exhaustion of the Sum Insured.  
2. The sequence of utilization of Sum Insured will be as below:  
a. Sum Insured; 
b. Cumulative Bonus (if any);  
c. Auto TOP UP 
3. Such Auto TOP UP shall only be available once in a Policy Period and only for Policies issued 
on Individual Sum Insured basis.  
4. Auto TOP UP is not available for Modern Treatments listed under section 3.11 of the Policy 
Clause. 
5. The unutilized amount will not be carried forward. 
 
SECTION 3: PLATINUM PLAN: 
Following Coverages are available under this Plan in addition to Gold Plan 
3.21 MATERNITY COVERAGE 
A. Maternity Expenses shall be covered after twenty-four months of Continuous Coverage under 
this Plan. Our maximum liability for towards Maternity Expenses, shall be up to Rs. 25,000/- in 
case of single baby and up to Rs. 37,500/- in case of Twin Babies. 
Special conditions applicable to Maternity:  
i. These benefits are admissible only if the expenses are incurred in Hospital as in patient in 
India.  
ii. Our liability under this section shall be limited to two claims paid or admissible under this 
Policy. 
iii. A Waiting Period of 24 months shall be applicable afresh for the second maternity claim. 
 
Note: Clause 4.4.15 “Maternity Expenses (Code - Excl18)” under Permanent Exclusions stands 
modified to the extent covered under this Benefit. 
 
B. Optional Cover: Following Enhanced Maternity Limit is available at an additional premium. 
Enhanced Maternity Limit 
(Over and above the Limit 
mentioned in ‘A’) 
Rs. 50,000 
Rs.75,000 
Rs. 1,00,000 
 

--- PAGE 22 ---

UIN: NIAHLIP22025V012223       Page 22 of 48 
YUVA BHARAT HEALTH POLICY 
Note: Enhanced Maternity Limit will be available after a waiting period of 24 months of 
continuous coverage. 
 
3.22 INFERTILITY TREATMENT 
We shall provide expenses necessarily incurred for treatment of Infertility (including OPD 
Treatment) as per limits mentioned below. This limit shall be the lifetime limit in respect of all 
Insured Persons.  
Sum Insured Amount payable 
5 lakhs, 10 lakhs & 15 lakhs Up to a Maximum of Rs.50,000 
25 lakhs Up to a Maximum of Rs.75,000 
50 lakhs Up to a Maximum of Rs.1,00,000 
 
Any payment under this Clause shall be paid after the Insured Person has Continuous Coverage 
of twenty-four months under this Plan.     
Note: Clause 4.4.14 “Sterility and Infertility (Code- Excl17)” under Permanent Exclusions stands 
modified to the extent covered under the clause.  
3.23 WELL BABY COVER 
A. Pre Mature / Pre -Term Baby: We will reimburse the Medical Expenses incurred towards  
hospitalisation of  pre-term or pre -mature Baby born within 32 weeks of Gestation Period 
requiring a minimum period of 24 Hours hospitalization in neo -natal care immediately after 
birth. 
Sum Insured Limit 
5 L, 10 L & 15 L Rs. 30,000 
25 L Rs. 40,000 
50 L Rs. 50,000 
Conditions: 
1. Pre-Mature/Pre-Term baby, under this policy is a Baby born within 32 weeks of 
Gestation period. 
2. Minimum period of 24-hour hospitalisation is required in neo-natal care immediately 
after birth. 
B. Vaccination Expenses: We will also cover Immunization or Vaccination expenses incurred for 
the New Born Baby up to the age of 2 years and shall be covered up to 0.1% of Sum Insured 
per policy period.  
Note 1:  New Born Baby means a baby born during the Policy Period to a female Insured Person, 
who has twenty-four months of Continuous Coverage with Us. 
Note 2: Clause 4. 4.30 “Vaccination and/or inoculation ” under Permanent Exclusions stands 
modified to the extent covered under this Benefit. 

--- PAGE 23 ---

UIN: NIAHLIP22025V012223       Page 23 of 48 
YUVA BHARAT HEALTH POLICY 
 
3.24 BIRTH RIGHT BENEFIT 
If during the Policy Period Child or New Born Baby  covered under the policy is diagnosed to 
suffer from any of the Disorders mentioned below, a lump sum amount as mentioned below 
shall be payable subject to the following conditions. 
Sum Insured Bands in Rs Benefit Payable 
5 lakhs, 10 lakhs & 15 lakhs Rs. 30,000 
25 lakhs Rs.40,000 
50 lakhs Rs.50,000 
Conditions: 
Disorder Detection 
Autism Spectrum Disorders Detected between the age of 0-6 Y. 
Cerebral Palsy Detected between the age of 0-4 Y. 
Downs Syndrome Detected between the age of 0-4 Y. 
 
 This Benefit shall be payable on continuous coverage of 24 months under this Plan. 
However, this is not applicable for New Born Baby. 
 Birth Right Benefit is payable only once in the Lifetime of the Child. 
 Any payment under this Clause would be in addition to the Sum Insured and shall not 
deplete the Sum Insured.  
 The Disorder must be supported by Certifying Authorities, as specified in the Rights of 
the Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016 (49 of 2016), and/or treating doctor’s certificate 
regarding duration Disorder, clinical radiological histological, pathological, histo -
pathological and laboratory evidence acceptable to the Company. 
 The benefit shall be payable to the Insured provided the Disorder is diagnosed after the 
first inception of Policy or change of Base Plan to Gold Plan or Platinum Plan.  
 
4.0 EXCLUSIONS 
No claim will be payable under this Policy for the following: 
STANDARD EXCLUSIONS 
4.1 PRE-EXISTING DISEASES (Code- Excl01) 
a. Expenses related to the treatment of a pre -existing Disease (PED) and its direct 
complications shall be excluded until the expiry of 24 months of continuous coverage after 
the date of inception of the first policy with us.  
b. In case of enhancement of Sum Insured the exclusion shall apply afresh to the extent of 
Sum Insured increase. 
c. If the Insured Person is continuou sly covered without any break as defined under the 
portability norms of the extant IRDAI (Health Insurance) Regulations then waiting period 

--- PAGE 24 ---

UIN: NIAHLIP22025V012223       Page 24 of 48 
YUVA BHARAT HEALTH POLICY 
for the same would be reduced to the extent of prior coverage. 
d. Coverage under the policy after the expiry of 24 months for any pre -existing disease is 
subject to the same being declared at the time of application and accepted by us. 
4.2 SPECIFIC WAITING PERIOD (Code- Excl02) 
a. Expenses related to the treatment of the following listed conditions, surgeries / 
treatments shall be excluded until the expiry of Ninety Days / 12 / 24 months of 
continuous coverage, as may be the case after the date of inception of the first policy with 
the insurer. This exclusion shall not be applicable for claims arising due to an accident. 
b. In case of enhancement of sum insured the exclusion shall apply afresh to the extent of 
sum insured increase. 
c. If any of the specified disease/procedure falls under the waiting period specified for pre-
existing diseases, then the longer of the two waiting periods shall apply. 
d. The waiting period for listed conditions shall apply even if contracted after the policy or 
declared and accepted without a specific exclusion. 
e. If the Insured Person is continuously covered without any break as defined under the 
applicable norms on portability stipulated by IRDAI, then waiting period for the same 
would be reduced to the extent of prior coverage. 
(i) 90 Days Waiting Period 
1. Diabetes Mellitus 
2. Hypertension 
3. Cardiac Conditions 
 
(ii) 12 Months waiting period  
1. All internal and external benign tumours, cysts, polyps of any kind, including benign 
breast lumps 
2. Benign ear, nose, throat disorders 
3. Benign prostate hypertrophy 
4. Cataract and age related eye ailments 
5. Gastric/ Duodenal Ulcer 
6. Gout and Rheumatism 
7. Hernia of all types  
8. Hydrocele 
9. Non Infective Arthritis 
10. Piles, Fissures and Fistula in anus 
11. Pilonidal sinus, Sinusitis and related disorders 
12. Prolapse inter Vertebral Disc and Spinal Diseases unless arising from accident 
13. Skin Disorders 
14. Stone in Gall Bladder and Bile duct, excluding malignancy 
15. Stones in Urinary system 
16. Treatment for Menorrhagia/Fibromyoma, Myoma and Prolapsed uterus  
17. Varicose Veins and Varicose Ulcers 
18. Renal Failure 
19. Puberty and Menopause related Disorders 
20. Internal Congenital Diseases 
21. Critical Care Benefit 
 
 

--- PAGE 25 ---

UIN: NIAHLIP22025V012223       Page 25 of 48 
YUVA BHARAT HEALTH POLICY 
(iii) 24 Months waiting period 
1. Joint Replacement due to Degenerative Condition 
2. Age-related Osteoarthritis & Osteoporosis 
3. Treatment of Mental Illness (ICD Code: F01-F29 & F60-F79) 
4. Age Related Macular Degeneration (ARMD) 
5. Genetic diseases or disorders 
6. Birth Right Benefit 
7. Infertility Treatment 
8. Maternity Coverage 
 
4.3 FIRST THIRTY DAYS WAITING PERIOD (Code- Excl03) 
a. Expenses related to the treatment of any illness within 30 days from the first policy 
commencement date shall be excluded except claims arising due to an accident, provided 
the same are covered. 
b. This exclusion shall not, however, apply if the Insured Person has Continuous Coverage 
for more than twelve months. 
c. The within referred waiting period is made applicable to the enhanced sum insured in the 
event of granting higher sum insured subsequently. 
4.4 EXCLUSIONS 
The Company shall not be liable to make any payment under the policy, in respect of any 
expenses incurred in connection with or in respect of: 
4.4.1 INVESTIGATION & EVALUATION (Code- Excl04) 
a. Expenses related to any admission primarily for diagnostics and evaluation purposes. 
b. Any diagnostic expenses which are not related or not incidental to the current diagnosis 
and treatment 
4.4.2 REST CURE, REHABILITATION AND RESPITE CARE (Code - Excl05) Expenses relate d to any 
admission primarily for enforced bed rest and not for receiving treatment. This also includes: 
a. Custodial care either at home or in a nursing facility for personal care such as help with 
activities of daily living such as bathing, dressing, moving around either by skilled nurses 
or assistant or non-skilled persons.  
b. Any services for people who are terminally ill to address physical, social, emotional and 
spiritual needs. 
4.4.3 OBESITY/ WEIGHT CONTROL (Code - Excl06) Expenses related to the surgical treatment of 
obesity that does not fulfil all the below conditions: 
a. Surgery to be conducted is upon the advice of the Doctor 
b. The surgery/Procedure conducted should be supported by clinical protocols 
c. The member has to be 18 years of age or older and 
d. Body Mass Index (BMI); 
1. greater than or equal to 40 or 
2. greater than or equal to 35 in conjunction with any of the following severe co -
morbidities following failure of less invasive methods of weight loss: 
i. Obesity-related cardiomyopathy 
ii. Coronary heart disease  

--- PAGE 26 ---

UIN: NIAHLIP22025V012223       Page 26 of 48 
YUVA BHARAT HEALTH POLICY 
iii. Severe Sleep Apnea 
iv. Uncontrolled Type2 Diabetes 
4.4.4 CHANGE-OF-GENDER TREATMENTS (Code- Excl07) 
Expenses related to any treatment, including surgical management, to change characteristics of 
the body to those of the opposite sex. 
4.4.5 COSMETIC OR PLASTIC SURGERY (Code- Excl08) 
Expenses for cosmetic or plastic surgery or any treatment to change appearance unless for 
reconstruction following an Accident, Burn(s) or Cancer or as part of medically necessary 
treatment to remove a direct and immediate health risk to the insured. For this to be considered 
a medical necessity, it must be certified by the attending Medical Practitioner. 
4.4.6 HAZARDOUS OR ADVENTURE SPORTS (Code- Excl09) 
Expenses related to any treatment necessitated due to participation as a professional in 
hazardous or adventu re sports, including but not limited to, para -jumping, rock climbing, 
mountaineering, rafting, motor racing, horse racing or scuba diving, hand gliding, sky diving, 
deep-sea diving.  
4.4.7 BREACH OF LAW (Code- Excl10) 
Expenses for treatment directly arising from or consequent upon any Insured Person 
committing or attempting to commit a breach of law with criminal intent. 
4.4.8 EXCLUDED PROVIDERS (Code-Excl11) 
Expenses incurred towards treatment in any hospital or by any Medical Practitioner or any other 
provider specifically excluded by the Insurer and disclosed in its website / notifi ed to the 
policyholders are not admissible.  However, in case of life-threatening situations or following an 
accident, expenses up to the stage of stabilization are payable but not the complete claim. 
4.4.9 Treatment for, Alcoholism, drug or substance abuse or a ny addictive condition and 
consequences thereof. (Code- Excl12) 
4.4.10 Treatments received in health hydros, nature cure clinics, spas or similar establishments or 
private beds registered as a nursing home attached to such establishments or where 
admission is arranged wholly or partly for domestic reasons. (Code- Excl13) 
4.4.11 Dietary supplements and substances that can be purchased  without prescription, including 
but not limited to Vitamins, minerals and organic substances unless prescribed by a medical 
practitioner as part of hospitalization claim or day care procedure. (Code- Excl14) 
4.4.12 REFRACTIVE ERROR (Code- Excl15) 
Expenses related to the treatment for correction of eye sight due to refractive error less than 
7.5 dioptres. 
 
 

--- PAGE 27 ---

UIN: NIAHLIP22025V012223       Page 27 of 48 
YUVA BHARAT HEALTH POLICY 
4.4.13 UNPROVEN TREATMENTS (Code- Excl16) 
Expenses related to any unproven treatment, services and supplies for or in connection with 
any treatment. Unpr oven treatments are treatments, procedures or supplies that lack 
significant medical documentation to support their effectiveness. 
4.4.14 STERILITY AND INFERTILITY (Code- Excl17) 
Expenses related to sterility and infertility. This includes: 
a. Any type of contraception, sterilization 
b. Assisted Reproduction services including artificial insemination and advanced 
reproductive technologies such as IVF, ZIFT, GIFT, ICSI 
c. Gestational Surrogacy 
d. Reversal of sterilization 
4.4.15 MATERNITY EXPENSES (Code - Excl18) 
a. Medical treatment expenses traceable to childbirth (including complicated deliveries and 
caesarean sections incurred during hospitalization) except ectopic pregnancy; 
b. Expenses towards miscarriage (unless due to an accident) and lawful medical termination 
of pregnancy during the policy period. 
SPECIFIC EXCLUSIONS 
4.4.16 Acupressure, acupuncture, magnetic therapies. 
4.4.17 Any expenses incurred on Domiciliary Hospitalization. 
4.4.18 Service charges, Surcharges, Luxury Tax , Admission fees, Registration fees, Record Charges 
and Telephone Charges levied by the Hospital. 
4.4.19 Bodily Injury or Illness due to intentional self-inflicted Injury and attempted suicide. 
4.4.20 Circumcision unless Medically Necessary or as may be necessitated due to an Accident. 
4.4.21 Convalescence and General debility. 
4.4.22 Cost of braces, equipment or external prosthetic devices, eyeglasses, Cost of spectacles and 
contact lenses, hearing aids including cochlear implants. 
4.4.23 External Medical / Non -medical equipment used for diagnosis and /or treatment including 
CPAP/BIPAP, Oxygen Concentrator, Infusion pump , Ambulatory devices (walker, crutches, 
Collars, Caps, Splints, Elasto crepe bandages, external orthopaedic pads ) and sub cutaneous 
insulin pump, Diabetic foot wear, Glucometer / Thermometer and equipment, which is 
subsequently used at home and outlives the use and life of the Insured Person. 
4.4.24 Naturopathy and Siddha Treatments. 
4.4.25 Nuclear, chemical or biological attack or weapons, contributed to, caused by, resulting from 
or from any other cause or event contributing concurrently or in any other sequence to the 
loss, claim or expense. For the purpose of this exclusion: 
a. Nuclear attack or weapons means the use of any nuclear weapon or  device or waste or 

--- PAGE 28 ---

UIN: NIAHLIP22025V012223       Page 28 of 48 
YUVA BHARAT HEALTH POLICY 
combustion of nuclear fuel or the emission, discharge, dispersal, release or escape of 
fissile/ fusion material emitting a level of radioactivity capable of causing any Illness, 
incapacitating disablement or death. 
b. Chemical attack or weapons means the emission, discharge, dispersal, release or escape 
of any solid, liquid or gaseous chemical compound which, when suitably distributed, is 
capable of causing any Illness, incapacitating disablement or death. 
c. Biological attack or weapons means the emission, discharge, dispersal, release or escape 
of any pathogenic (disease producing) micro -organisms and/or biologically produced 
toxins (including genetically modified organisms and chemically synthesized toxins) which 
are capable of causing any Illness, incapacitating disablement or death. 
4.4.26 Stem cell implantation/Surgery for other than those treatments mentioned in clause 3.11.12 
4.4.27 Expenses incurred for Rotational Field Quantum Magnetic Resonance (RFQMR), External 
Counter Pulsation (ECP), Enhanced External Counter Pulsation (EECP), Hyperbaric Oxygen 
Therapy. 
4.4.28 Treatment taken outside the geographical limits of India 
4.4.29 Vaccination and/or inoculation 
4.4.30 War (whether declared or not) and war like occurrence  or invasion, acts of foreign enemies, 
hostilities, civil war, rebellion, revolutions, insurrections, mutiny, military or usurped power, 
seizure, capture, arrest, restraints and detainment of all kinds. 
5.0 GENERAL TERMS AND CLAUSES 
STANDARD GENERAL TERMS AND CLAUSES 
5.1 CANCELLATION 
i. The policyholder may cancel this policy by giving 15 days written notice and in such an event, 
the Company shall refund premium for the unexpired policy period as detailed below.  
Period On Risk Rate of Premium To Be Charged (Retained By The Insurer) 
Up to one month 1/4th of the annual rate 
Up to three months 1/2 of the annual rate 
Up to six months 3/4th of the annual rate 
Exceeding  six months Full annual rate 
 
In the event of death of insured in the middle of policy year/during the course of policy period, 
the premium for the unexpired policy period shall be refunded proportionately.  
Notwithstanding anything contained herein or otherwise, no refunds of premium shall be 
made in respect of Cancellation where, any claim has been admitted or has been lodged or 
any benefit has been availed by the insured person under the policy.  
ii. The Company may cancel the policy at any time on grounds of misrepresentation non -
disclosure of material facts, fraud by the insured person by giving 15 days' written notice. 
There would be no refund of premium on cancellation on grounds of misrepresentation, non-
disclosure of material facts or fraud. 

--- PAGE 29 ---

UIN: NIAHLIP22025V012223       Page 29 of 48 
YUVA BHARAT HEALTH POLICY 
 
5.2 CONDITION PRECEDENT TO ADMISSION OF LIABILITY: 
The terms and conditions of the policy must be fulfilled by the insured person for the Company 
to make any payment for claim(s) arising under the policy. 
5.3 COMPLETE DISCHARGE  
Any payment to the policyholder, insured person or his/ her nominees or his/ her legal 
representative or assignee or to the Hospital, as the case may be, for any benefit under the policy 
shall be a valid discharge towards payment of claim by the Company to the extent of that amount 
for the particular claim. 
5.4 DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION 
The policy shall be void and all premium paid thereon shall be forfeited to the Company in the 
event of misrepresentation, mis description or non -disclosure of any material fact by the 
policyholder. 
(Explanation: "Material facts" for the purpose of this policy shall mean all relevant information 
sought by the company in the proposal form and other connected documents to enable it to take 
informed decision in the context of underwriting the risk). 
5.5 FRAUD 
lf any claim made by the insured person, is in any respect fraudulent, or if any false statement, or 
declaration is made or used in support thereof, or if any fraudulent means or devices are used by 
the insured person or anyone acting on his/her behalf to obtain any benefit under this policy, all 
benefits under this policy and the premium paid shall be forfeited.  
Any amount already paid against claims made under this policy but which are found fraudulent 
later shall be repaid by all recipient(s)/policyholder(s), who has made that particular claim, who 
shall be jointly and severally liable for such repayment to the insurer.  
For the purpose of this clause, the expression "fraud" means any of the following acts committed 
by the insured person or by his agent or the hospital/doctor/any other party acting on  behalf of 
the insured person, with intent to deceive the insurer or to induce the insurer to issue an insurance 
policy: 
i. the suggestion, as a fact of that which is not true and which the insured person does not 
believe to be true; 
ii. the active concealment of a fact by the insured person having knowledge or belief of the fact; 
iii. any other act fitted to deceive; and  
iv. any such act or omission as the law specially declares to be fraudulent  
The Company shall not repudiate the claim and / or forfeit the policy benef its on the ground of 
Fraud, if the insured person / beneficiary can prove that the misstatement was true to the best of 
his knowledge and there was no deliberate intention to suppress the fact or that such 
misstatement of or suppression of material fact are within the knowledge of the insurer. 

--- PAGE 30 ---

UIN: NIAHLIP22025V012223       Page 30 of 48 
YUVA BHARAT HEALTH POLICY 
5.6 FREE LOOK PERIOD 
The Free Look Period shall be applicable on new individual health insurance policies and not on 
renewals or at the time of porting/migrating the policy.  
The insured person shall be allowed free look period of fifteen days from date of receipt of the 
policy document to review the terms and conditions of the policy, and to return the same if not 
acceptable.  
lf the insured has not made any claim during the Free Look Period, the insured shall be entitled  
to 
i. a refund of the premium paid less any expenses incurred by the Company on medical 
examination of the insured person and the stamp duty charges or  
ii. where the risk has already commenced and the option of return of the policy is exercised by 
the insured person, a deduction towards the proportionate risk premium for period of cover 
or 
iii. Where only a part of the insurance coverage has commenced, such proportionate premium 
commensurate with the insurance coverage during such period; 
 
5.7 MULTIPLE POLICIES 
i. ln case of multiple policies taken by an insured person during a period from one or more 
insurers to indemnify treatment costs, the insured person shall have the right to require a 
settlement of his/her claim in terms of any of his/her policies. ln all such cases the Insurer 
chosen by the insured person shall be obliged to settle the claim as long as the claim is within 
the limits of and according to the terms of the chosen policy. 
ii. lnsured person having multiple policies shall also have the right to prefer claims u nder this 
policy for the amounts disallowed under any other policy / policies even if the sum insured is 
not exhausted. Then the insurer shall independently settle the claim subject to the terms and 
conditions of this policy. 
iii. If the amount to be claimed exceeds the sum insured under a single policy, the insured person 
shall have the right to choose insurer from whom he/she wants to claim the balance amount 
iv. Where an insured person has policies from more than one insurer to cover the same risk on 
indemnity ba sis, the insured person shall only be indemnified the treatment costs in 
accordance with the terms and conditions of the chosen policy 
 
5.8 MORATORIUM PERIOD 
After completion of eight continuous years under this policy no look back would be applied. This 
period of eight years is called as moratorium period. The moratorium would be applicable for 
the Sums Insured of the first policy and subsequently completion of eight continuous years 
would be applicable from date of enhancement of Sums Insured only on the enhanced limits. 
After the expiry of Moratorium Period no claim under this policy shall be contestable except for 
proven fraud and permanent exclusions specified in the policy contract. The policies would 
however be subject to all limits, sub limits, co-payments as per the policy. 
 
5.9 NOMINATION:  
The policyholder is required at the inception of the policy to make a nomination for the purpose 
of payment of claims under the policy in the event of death of the policyholder. Any change of 

--- PAGE 31 ---

UIN: NIAHLIP22025V012223       Page 31 of 48 
YUVA BHARAT HEALTH POLICY 
nomination shall be communicated to the company in writing and such change shall be effective 
only when an endorsement on the policy is made. ln the event of death of the policyholder, the 
Company will pay the nominee {as named in the Policy Schedule/Policy Certificate/Endorsement 
(if any)} and in case there is no subsisting nominee, to the legal heirs or legal representatives of 
the policyholder whose discharge shall be treated as full and final discharge of its liability under 
the policy. 
5.10 CLAIM SETTLEMENT (PROVISION FOR PENAL INTEREST) 
i. The Company shall settle or reject a claim, as the case may be, within 30 days from the date 
of receipt of last necessary document.  
ii. ln the case of delay in the payment of a claim, the Company shall be liable to pay interest to 
the policyholder from the date of receipt of last necessary document to the date of payment 
of claim at a rate 2% above the bank rate.  
iii. However, where the circumstances of a claim warrant an investigation in the opinion of the 
Company, it shall initiate and complete such investigation at the earliest, in any case not later 
than 30 days from the date of receipt of last necessary document. ln such cases, the Company 
shall settle or reject the claim within 45 days from the date of receipt of last necessary 
document.  
iv. ln case of delay beyond stipulated 45 days, the Company shall be liable to pay interest to the 
policyholder at a rate 2% above the bank rate from the date of receipt of last necessary 
document to the date of payment of claim.  
v. "Bank rate" shall mean the rate fixed by the Reserve Bank of lndia (RBl) at the beginning of 
the financial year in which claim has fallen due. 
 
5.11 RENEWAL OF POLICY 
The policy shall ordin arily be renewable except on grounds of fraud, misrepresentation by the 
insured person.  
i. The Company shall endeavor to give notice for renewal. However, the Company is not under 
obligation to give any notice for renewal.  
ii. Renewal shall not be denied on the ground that the insured person had made a claim or claims 
in the preceding policy years.  
iii. Request for renewal along with requisite premium shall be received by the Company before 
the end of the policy period. 
iv. At the end of the policy period, the policy sh all terminate and can be renewed within the 
Grace Period of 30 days to maintain continuity of benefits without break in policy. Coverage 
is not available during the Grace Period. 
v. No loading shall apply on renewals based on individual claims experience. 
 
5.12 WITHDRAWAL OF POLICY 
i. ln the likelihood of this product being withdrawn in future, the Company will intimate the 
insured person about the same 90 days prior to expiry of the policy.  
ii. lnsured Person will have the option to migrate to similar health insurance p roduct available 
with the Company at the time of renewal with all the accrued continuity benefits such as 
cumulative bonus, waiver of waiting period. as per IRDAI guidelines, provided the policy has 
been maintained without a break. 
 

--- PAGE 32 ---

UIN: NIAHLIP22025V012223       Page 32 of 48 
YUVA BHARAT HEALTH POLICY 
5.13 POSSIBILITY OF REVISION OF TERMS OF THE POLICY, INCLUDING THE PREMIUM RATES  
The Company, with prior approval of lRDAl, may revise or modify the terms of the policy including 
the premium rates. The insured person shall be notified three months before the changes are 
effected. 
5.14 REDRESSAL OF GRIEVANCE  
ln case of any grievance the insured person may contact the company through 
Website: https://www.newindia.co.in/portal/readMore/Grievances 
Toll free: 1800-209-1415 
E-mail, Fax and Courier: As mentioned in the above address 
Senior Citizens may write to seniorcitizencare.ho@newindia.co.in 
lnsured person may also approach the grievance cell at any of the company's branches with the details 
of grievance. 
lf lnsured person is not satisfied with the redressal of grievance through one of the above methods, 
insured person may contact the grievance officer at 
https://www.newindia.co.in/portal/readMore/Grievances For updated details of grievance officer, 
kindly refer the link https://www.newindia.co.in/portal/readMore/Grievances 
lf lnsured person is not satisfied with the redressal of grievance through above methods, the insured 
person may also approach the office of lnsurance Ombudsman of the respective area/region for 
redressal of grievance as per lnsurance Ombudsman Rules 2017. Please refer to Annexure III. 
Grievance may also be lodged at IRDAI lntegrated Grievance Management System - https://igms. 
irdai.gov.in 
5.15 PORTABILITY AND MIGRATION: 
Migration: 
You will have the option to  migrate the policy to other Health Insurance products/plans 
offered by the company by applying for migration of the policy at -least 30 days before 
the policy renewal date as per IRDAI guidelines on Migration. If You are presently covered 
and has been cont inuously covered without any lapses under any Health Insurance 
product/plan offered by the Company, then You will get the accrued continuity benefits 
in waiting periods as per IRDAI guidelines on Migration. For detailed guidelines on 
Migration. Kindly refe r the link 
https://www.irdai.gov.in/ADMINCMS/cms/frmGeneral_NoYearList.aspx?DF=RL&mid=4.
2 
 
Portability: 
You will have the option to port the policy to other Insurers by applying to such Insurer to port 
the entire policy along with all the members of the family, if any, at-least 45 days before, but not 

--- PAGE 33 ---

UIN: NIAHLIP22025V012223       Page 33 of 48 
YUVA BHARAT HEALTH POLICY 
earlier than 60 days from the policy renewal date as per IRDAI guidelines related to portability. If 
such person is presently covered and has been continuously covered without any lapses under 
any Health Insurance policy with an India General/Health Insurer, the proposed Insured person 
will get the accrued continuity benefits in waiting periods as per IRDAI guidelines on portability.  
For detailed guidelines on Portability. Kindly refer the link 
https://www.irdai.gov.in/ADMINCMS/cms/frmGeneral_NoYearList.aspx?DF=RL&mid=4.2 
 
SPECIFIC TERMS AND CLAUSES 
5.16 BASIS OF INSURANCE: 
This Policy is issued on the basis of the truth and accuracy of statements in the Proposal. If there 
is any misrepresentation or non-disclosure We will be entitled to treat the Policy as void. 
5.17 PREMIUM: 
Unless premium is paid before commencement of risk, this Policy shall have no effect. 
5.18 PLACE OF TREATMENT AND PAYMENT: 
This Policy covers medical/surgical treatment and/or services rendered only in India. 
Admissible claims shall be payable only in Indian Rupees. 
Payment shall be made directly to Network Hospital if Cashless facility is applied for before 
treatment and accepted by TPA. If request for Cashless facility is not accepted by TPA, bills shall 
be submitted to the TPA after payment of Hospital bills by you. 
Note: Cashless facility is only a mode of claim payment and cannot be demanded in every claim. 
If we/TPA have doubts regarding admissibility of a claim at the initial stage, which cannot 
be decided without further verification of treatment records, request for Cashless facility 
may be declined. Such decision by TPA or Us shall be final. Denial of Cashless facility 
would not imply denial of claim. If Cashless facility is denied, You may submit the papers 
on completion of treatment and admissibility of the claim would be subject to the terms, 
conditions and exceptions of the Policy. 
5.19 COMMUNICATION: 
You must send all communications and papers regarding a claim to the TPA at the address shown 
in the Schedule. 
For all other matters relating to the policy, communication must be sent to our Policy issuing 
office. 
Communications you wish to rely upon must be in writing.  
5.20 NOTICE OF CLAIM: 
If You intend to make any claim under this Policy You must: 
a. Intimate TPA in writing on detection of any Illness/Injury being suffered immediately or forty 
eight hours before Hospitalisation. 

--- PAGE 34 ---

UIN: NIAHLIP22025V012223       Page 34 of 48 
YUVA BHARAT HEALTH POLICY 
b. Intimate within twenty four hours from the time of Hospitalisation in case of Hospitalisation 
due to medical emergency. 
c. Submit following supporting documents TPA relating to the claim within seven days from 
the date of discharge from the Hospital: 
i. Bill, Receipt and Discharge certificate / card from the Hospital. 
ii. Cash Memos from the Hospitals (s) / Chemists (s), supported by proper 
prescriptions. 
iii. Receipt and Pathological test reports from Pathologist supported by the note 
from the attending Medical Practitioner / Surgeon recommending such 
Pathological tests / pathological. 
iv. Surgeon's certificate stating nature of operation performed an d Surgeons’ bill 
and receipt. 
v. Attending Doctor's/ Consultant's/ Specialist's / Anesthetist’s bill and receipt, 
and certificate regarding diagnosis. 
d. In case of Post-Hospitalisation treatment (limited to sixty days), submit all claim documents 
within 7 days after completion of such treatment. 
e. Provide TPA with authorization to obtain medical and other records from any Hospital, 
Laboratory or other agency. 
Note: The above stipulations are not intended merely to prejudice Your  claims, but their 
compliance is of utmost importance and necessity for Us to identify and verify all facts 
and surrounding circumstances relating to a claim and determine whether it is payable. 
Waiver of delay may be considered in extreme cases of hardshi p, but only if it is proved 
to Our satisfaction it was not possible for You or any other person to comply with the 
prescribed time-limit. 
5.21 SETTLEMENT/REJECTION OF CLAIM: 
i. We shall settle or reject a claim, as may be the case, within thirty days of the receip t of the 
last ‘necessary’ document. 
ii. While efforts will be made by Us to not call for any document not listed in Clause 5.14, where 
any additional document or clarification is necessary to take a decision on the claim, such 
additional documents will be called for. 
iii. All necessary claim documents pertaining to Hospitalization should be furnished by the 
Insured Person in original to the TPA (as mentioned in the Schedule), within seven days from 
the date of discharge from the Hospital. However, claims filed even beyond such period will 
be considered if there are valid reasons for delay in submission. 
a. In case of any deficiency in submission of documents, the TPA shall issue a deficiency 
request. 
b. In case of non -submission of documents requested in the deficiency req uest within 
seven days from the date of receipt of the deficiency request, three reminders shall 
be sent by the TPA at an interval of seven days each.  
c. The claim shall stand repudiated if the documents, mandatory for taking the decision 
of admissibility of  the Claim, are not submitted within seven days of the third 
reminder. 
d. If the required documents are such that it does not affect the admissibility of the claim 
and is limited to payment of certain expenditure only, the Claim will be paid after 
reducing such amount from the admissible amount. 

--- PAGE 35 ---

UIN: NIAHLIP22025V012223       Page 35 of 48 
YUVA BHARAT HEALTH POLICY 
e. In the event of a claim lodged under the Policy and the original documents having 
been submitted  to any other insurer, the Company shall accept the copy of the 
documents and claim settlement advice, duly certified by the other insurer. 
5.22 The Insured person shall submit to the TPA all original bills, receipts and other documents upon 
which a claim is based and shall also give the TPA/Us such additional information and assistance 
as the TPA / We may require. 
5.23 Any Medical Practitioner authorised by the TPA/Us shall be allowed to examine the Insured 
Person, at our cost, if We deem Medically Necessary in connection with any claim. 
5.24 ENHANCEMENT OF SUM INSURED 
You may seek enhancement of Sum Insured in writing before payment of premium for renewal, 
which may be granted as per the Company’s underwriting guidelines. 
Enhancement of Sum Insured will not be considered for: 
a. Any Insured Person over 65 years of age.  
b. Any Insured Person suffering from any Critical Illness or Recurring Illness. 
c. Any Insured Person having hospitalisation/claims pertaining to treatment of critical 
illness or recurring illness 
Note: 
1. In respect of any enhancement of Sum Insured, exclusions 4.1, 4.2 and 4.3 would apply 
to the additional Sum Insured from such date. 
2. In case of increase in S.I., enhanced benefit shall be applicable on completion of Waiting 
period under respective S.I. and Plan chosen at the time of renewal. 
5.25 CUMLATIVE BONUS: 
Insured Person will be entitled for Cumulative Bonus o f 10% at each claim free year Renewal , 
subject to maximum of 30%. If a claim  is made in any particular year,  the cumulative bonus 
accrued at the time of renewal shall be reduced at the same rate at which it is accrued.  
Note: 
i. In case where the policy is on individual basis, the CB shall be available individually to the 
insured person who has not claimed under the expiring policy. 
ii. In case where the policy is on floater basis, the CB shall be available to the family on floater 
basis, provided no claim is reported under the expiring policy.  
iii. CB shall be available only if the Policy is renewed within the Grace Period. 
iv. If the Insured Persons in th e expiring policy are covered on an individual basis and the 
policy has been Renewed on a floater policy basis, the applicable CB for the renewed policy 
shall be the Lowest among all the Insured Persons. 
v. In case of floater policies where Insured Persons Re new their expiring policy by splitting 
the Sum Insured in to two or more floater policies/individual policies, the same CB of the 
expiring policy shall be applicable to each Individual of such Renewed Policies. 

--- PAGE 36 ---

UIN: NIAHLIP22025V012223       Page 36 of 48 
YUVA BHARAT HEALTH POLICY 
vi. If the Sum Insured has been reduced at the ti me of Renewal, the applicable Cumulative 
Bonus percentage shall be applied on the reduced Sum Insured. 
vii. If the Sum Insured under the Policy has been increased at the time of Renewal the 
Cumulative Bonus shall be calculated on the Sum Insured of the Expiring Policy. 
viii. If a claim is made in the expiring Policy Year, and is notified to Us after the acceptance of 
Renewal premium any CB, if any, shall be reduced suitably. 
5.26 ARBITRATION: 
If We admit liability for any claim but any difference or dispute arises as to the amount payable 
for any claim the same shall be decided by reference to Arbitration. 
The Arbitrator shall be appointed in accordance with the provisions of the Arbitration and 
Conciliation Act, 1996. 
No reference to Arbitration shall be made unless We  have admitted Our liability for a claim in 
writing. 
If a claim is declined  and within twelve calendar months from such disclaimer any suit or 
proceeding is not filed then the claim shall for all purposes be deemed to have been abandoned 
and shall not thereafter be recoverable hereunder. 
5.27 Premium Payment in Instalments 
If the insured person has opted for Payment of Premium on an instalment basis i.e. Half Yearly, 
Quarterly or Monthly, as mentioned in Your Policy Schedule, the following Conditions shall 
apply (notwithstanding any terms contrary elsewhere in the Policy). 
1. The instalment premium shall be paid on or before the due date as mentioned in the Policy 
Schedule. 
2. Grace Period of 7 days for monthly instalment and 15 days for quarterly and half -yearly 
mode will be given to pay the installment premium due for the Policy. During suc h Grace 
Period, Coverage will not be available from the instalment premium due date until the date 
of receipt of premium by Company. 
3. If the instalment premium is not paid within the Grace Period, then policy shall cease to 
exist at midnight of such due date and will be treated as lapsed and company shall not be 
liable to pay any claim whatsoever. 
4. All claims that fall beyond such premium instalment due date shall not be payable under 
the policy. 
5. In case of a claim, Policyholder will be liable to pay the bala nce premium due under the 
policy before the claim is Intimated. 
5.28 PROTECTION OF POLICY HOLDERS’ INTEREST: 
This policy is subject to IRDAI (Protection of Policyholders’ Interests) Regulation, 2017. 
5.29 ZONE CLASSIFICATION: For the purpose of policy issuance, th e premium will be computed 
based on the Zone Opted by the Insured Person in the proposal form. Classification of Zones 
are as follows: 
 

--- PAGE 37 ---

UIN: NIAHLIP22025V012223       Page 37 of 48 
YUVA BHARAT HEALTH POLICY 
Zone 1: Delhi, National Capital Region (NCR), Mumbai, Mumbai Suburban, Thane and Navi  
Mumbai, Surat, Ahmedabad and Vadodara 
Zone 2: Rest of India 
Conditions: 
a. Insured Person opting for Zone I can avail t reatment anywhere in India and N o Co-pay shall 
be applicable. 
b. In case the Insured Person opting Zone II takes treatment in Zone I, Co -pay of 10% shall be 
applicable on admissible claim. 
c. Co-Pay shall not be applicable for immediate hospitalization arising out of Accident. 
d. Co-Pay shall also not be applicable for Illness or Treatments having sub-limits. 
 
5.30 The expenses that are not covered in this  policy are placed under List-I of Annexure-II. The list 
of expenses that are to be subsumed into room charges, or procedure charges or costs of 
treatment are placed under List-II, List-III and List-IV of Annexure-II respectively. 

--- PAGE 38 ---

UIN: NIAHLIP22025V012223       Page 38 of 48 
YUVA BHARAT HEALTH POLICY 
ANNEXURE I: LIST OF DAY CARE PROCEDURES: 
No LIST OF DAY-CARE TREATMENTS No LIST OF DAY-CARE TREATMENTS 
ENT General Surgery 
1 Stapedotomy 148 Infected keloid excision 
2 Myringoplasty(Type I Tympanoplasty) 149 Incision of a pilonidal sinus / abscess 
3 Revision stapedectomy 150 Infected sebaceous cyst 
4 Labyrinthectomy for severe Vertigo 151 Infected lipoma excision 
5 Stapedectomy under GA 152 Maximal anal dilatation 
6 Ossiculoplasty 153 Surgical Treatment Of Haemorrhoids 
7 Myringotomy with Grommet Insertion 154 Liver Abscess- catheter drainage 
8 Tympanoplasty (Type III) 155 Fissure in Ano- fissurectomy 
9 Stapedectomy under LA 156 Fibroadenoma breast excision 
10 Revision of the fenestration of the inner ear. 157 Oesophageal varices Sclerotherapy 
11 Tympanoplasty (Type IV) 158 ERCP – pancreatic duct stone removal 
12 Endolymphatic Sac Surgery for Meniere’s 
Disease 159 Perianal abscess I&D 
13 Turbinectomy 160 Perianal hematoma Evacuation 
14 Removal of Tympanic Drain under LA 161 Fissure in ano sphincterotomy 
15 Endoscopic Stapedectomy 162 UGI scopy and Polypectomy oesophagus 
16 Fenestration of the inner ear 163 Breast abscess I& D 
17 Incision and drainage of perichondritis 164 Feeding Gastrostomy 
18 Septoplasty 165 Oesophagoscopy and biopsy of growth 
oesophagus 
19 Vestibular Nerve section 166 ERCP – Bile duct stone removal 
20 Thyroplasty Type I 167 Ileostomy closure 
21 Tympanoplasty (Type II) 168 Polypectomy colon 
22 Reduction of fracture of Nasal Bone 169 Splenic abscesses Laparoscopic Drainage 
23 Excision and destruction of lingual tonsils 170 UGI SCOPY and Polypectomy stomach 
24 Conchoplasty 171 Rigid Oesophagoscopy for FB removal 
25 Thyroplasty Type II 172 Feeding Jejunostomy 
26 Tracheostomy 173 Colostomy 
27 Excision of Angioma Septum 174 Ileostomy 
28 Turbinoplasty 175 Colostomy closure 
29 Incision & Drainage of Retro Pharyngeal Abscess 176 Submandibular salivary duct stone removal 
30 Uvulo Palato Pharyngo Plasty 177 Pancreatic Pseudocysts Endoscopic Drainage 
31 Palatoplasty 178 Subcutaneous mastectomy 
32 Tonsillectomy without adenoidectomy 179 Excision of Ranula under GA 
33 Adenoidectomy with Grommet insertion 180 Rigid Oesophagoscopy for dilation of benign 
Strictures 
34 Adenoidectomy without Grommet insertion 181 Eversion of Sac 
35 Vocal Cord lateralisation Procedure 182 1. a) Unilateral 
36 Incision & Drainage of Para Pharyngeal Abscess 183 b)Bilateral 
37 Transoral incision and drainage of a pharyngeal 
abscess 184 Lord’s plication 
38 Tonsillectomy with adenoidectomy 185 Jaboulay’s Procedure 
39 Tracheoplasty 186 Scrotoplasty 
40 Reconstruction Of The Middle Ear 187 Surgical treatment of varicocele 
41 Mastoidectomy 188 Epididymectomy 
42 Excision And Destruction Of Diseased Tissue Of 
The Nose 189 Circumcision for Trauma 
43 Incision (Opening) And Destruction 
(Elimination) Of The Inner Ear 190 Meatoplasty 
44 Incision Of The Mastoid Process And Middle Ear 191 Intersphincteric abscess incision and drainage 

--- PAGE 39 ---

UIN: NIAHLIP22025V012223       Page 39 of 48 
YUVA BHARAT HEALTH POLICY 
45 Nasal Sinus Aspiration 192 Psoas Abscess Incision and Drainage 
46 Other Microsurgical Operations On The Middle 
Ear 193 Thyroid abscess Incision and Drainage 
47 Other Operations On The Auditory Ossicles 194 TIPS procedure for portal hypertension 
48 Plastic Surgery To The Floor Of The Mouth 195 PAIR Procedure of Hydatid Cyst liver 
49 Incision Of The Hard And Soft Palate 196 Excision of Cervical RIB 
50 External Incision And Drainage In The Region Of 
The Mouth, Jaw And Face 197 Surgery for fracture Penis 
51 Other Operations On The Salivary Glands And 
Salivary Ducts 198 Parastomal hernia 
Ophthalmology 199 Revision colostomy 
52 Incision of tear glands 200 Prolapsed colostomy- Correction 
53 Other operation on the tear ducts 201 Laparoscopic cardiomyotomy( Hellers) 
54 Incision of diseased eyelids 202 Laparoscopic pyloromyotomy( Ramstedt) 
55 Excision and destruction of the diseased tissue 
of the eyelid 203 Orchiectomy 
56 Removal of foreign body from the lens of the 
eye. 204 Incision Of The Breast 
57 Corrective surgery of the entropion and 
ectropion 205 Operations On The Nipple 
58 Operations for pterygium 206 Incision And Excision Of Tissue In The Perianal 
Region 
59 Corrective surgery of blepharoptosis 207 Surgical Treatment Of Anal Fistulas 
60 Removal of foreign body from conjunctiva 208 Division Of The Anal Sphincter (Sphincterotomy) 
61 Removal of Foreign body from cornea 209 Glossectomy 
62 Incision of the cornea 210 Reconstruction Of The Tongue 
63 Other operations on the cornea 211 Incision, Excision And Destruction Of Diseased 
Tissue Of The Tongue 
64 Operation on the canthus and epicanthus 212 Operations On The Seminal Vesicles 
65 Removal of foreign body from the orbit and the 
eye ball. 213 Other Operations On The Spermatic Cord, 
Epididymis And Ductus Deferens 
66 Surgery for cataract 214 Local Excision And Destruction Of Diseased 
Tissue Of The Penis 
67 Treatment of retinal lesion 215 Other Operations On The Penis 
68 Removal of foreign body from the posterior 
chamber of the eye 216 Other Excisions Of The Skin And Subcutaneous 
Tissues 
Oncology 217 Other Incisions Of The Skin And Subcutaneous 
Tissues 
69 IV Push Chemotherapy 218 Simple Restoration Of Surface Continuity Of The 
Skin And Subcutaneous Tissues 
70 Continuous Infusional Chemotherapy 219 Free Skin Transplantation, Donor Site 
71 Infusional Chemotherapy 220 Free Skin Transplantation, Recipient Site 
72 CCRT-Concurrent Chemo + RT 221 Reconstruction Of The Testis 
73 SRS- Stereotactic radiosurgery 222 Incision Of The Scrotum And Tunica Vaginalis 
Testis 
74 TBI- Total Body Radiotherapy 223 Excision In The Area Of The Epididymis 
75 Adjuvant Radiotherapy 224 Revision Of Skin Plasty 
76 Radical chemotherapy 225 Other Restoration And Reconstruction Of The 
Skin And Subcutaneous Tissues 
77 Neoadjuvant radiotherapy 226 Destruction Of Diseased Tissue In The Skin And 
Subcutaneous Tissues 
78 Palliative Radiotherapy Orthopedics 
79 Radical Radiotherapy 227 Arthroscopic Repair of ACL tear knee 
80 Palliative chemotherapy 228 Arthroscopic repair of PCL tear knee 
81 Neoadjuvant chemotherapy 229 Tendon shortening 

--- PAGE 40 ---

UIN: NIAHLIP22025V012223       Page 40 of 48 
YUVA BHARAT HEALTH POLICY 
82 Adjuvant chemotherapy 230 Arthroscopic Meniscectomy – Knee 
83 Induction chemotherapy 231 Treatment of clavicle dislocation 
84 Consolidation chemotherapy 232 Arthroscopic meniscus repair 
85 Maintenance chemotherapy 233 Haemarthrosis knee- lavage 
Urology 234 Abscess knee joint drainage 
86 AV fistula  235 Repair of knee cap tendon 
87 URSL with stenting 236 ORIF with K wire fixation- small bones 
88 URSL with lithotripsy 237 ORIF with plating- Small long bones 
89 ESWL 238 Arthrotomy Hip joint 
90 Haemodialysis 239 Syme’s amputation 
91 Cystoscopy and removal of polyp 240 Arthroplasty 
92 Excision of urethral diverticulum 241 Partial removal of rib 
93 Removal of urethral Stone 242 Treatment of sesamoid bone fracture 
94 Ureter endoscopy and treatment 243 Amputation of metacarpal bone 
95 Surgery for pelvi ureteric junction obstruction 244 Repair / graft of foot tendon 
96 Injury prepuce- circumcision 245 Revision/Removal of Knee cap 
97 Frenular tear repair 246 Remove/graft leg bone lesion 
98 Meatotomy for meatal stenosis 247 Repair/graft achilles tendon 
99 Surgery for fournier’s gangrene scrotum 248 Biopsy elbow joint lining 
100 Surgery filarial scrotum 249 Biopsy finger joint lining 
101 Surgery for watering can perineum 250 Tendon lengthening 
102 Repair of penile torsion 251 Surgery of bunion 
103 Drainage of prostate abscess 252 Tendon transfer procedure 
104 Cystoscopy and removal of FB 253 Removal of knee cap bursa 
105 Transurethral Excision And Destruction Of 
Prostate Tissue 254 Treatment of fracture of ulna 
106 Transurethral And Percutaneous Destruction Of 
Prostate Tissue 255 Treatment of scapula fracture 
107 Open Surgical Excision And Destruction Of 
Prostate Tissue 256 Removal of tumor of arm/ elbow under RA/GA 
108 Radical Prostatovesiculectomy 257 Repair of ruptured tendon 
109 Other Excision And Destruction Of Prostate 
Tissue 258 Revision of neck muscle ( Torticollis release ) 
110 Incision Of The Prostate 259 Treatment fracture of radius & ulna 
111 Incision And Excision Of Periprostatic Tissue 260 Incision On Bone, Septic And Aseptic 
112 Other Operations On The Prostate 261 Closed Reduction On Fracture, Luxation Or 
Epiphyseolysis With Osteosynthesis 
Gynaecology 262 Reduction Of Dislocation Under Ga 
113 Hysteroscopic removal of myoma Paediatric surgery 
114 D&C 263 Vaginoplasty 
115 Hysteroscopic resection of septum 264 Dilatation of accidental caustic stricture 
oesophageal 
116 Hysteroscopic adhesiolysis 265 Presacral Teratomas Excision 
117 Polypectomy Endometrium 266 Removal of vesical stone 
118 Hysteroscopic resection of fibroid 267 Excision Sigmoid Polyp 
119 LLETZ 268 Sternomastoid Tenotomy 
120 Conization 269 High Orchidectomy for testis tumours 
121 Polypectomy cervix 270 Excision of cervical teratoma 
122 Hysteroscopic resection of endometrial polyp 271 Rectal-Myomectomy 
123 Vulval wart excision 272 Rectal prolapse (Delorme’s procedure) 
124 Laparoscopic paraovarian cyst excision 273 Orchidopexy for undescended testis 
125 Uterine artery embolization 274 Detorsion of torsion Testis 
126 Bartholin Cyst excision 275 Lap.Abdominal exploration in cryptorchidism 
127 Laparoscopic cystectomy 276 EUA + biopsy multiple fistula in ano 

--- PAGE 41 ---

UIN: NIAHLIP22025V012223       Page 41 of 48 
YUVA BHARAT HEALTH POLICY 
128 Endometrial ablation 277 Excision of fistula-in-ano 
129 Vaginal wall cyst excision Others 
130 Vulval cyst Excision 278 Coronary Angiography 
131 Laparoscopic paratubal cyst excision 279 Ultrasound Guided Aspirations 
132 Hysteroscopy, removal of myoma 280 Chemosurgery To The Skin 
133 TURBT     
134 Laparoscopic Myomectomy     
135 Surgery for SUI     
136 Pelvic floor repair( excluding Fistula repair)     
137 Laparoscopic oophorectomy     
138 Incision Of The Ovary     
139 Insufflation Of The Fallopian Tubes     
140 Dilatation Of The Cervical Canal     
141 Conisation Of The Uterine Cervix     
142 Hysterotomy     
143 Therapeutic Curettage     
144 Culdotomy     
145 Incision Of The Vagina     
146 Local Excision And Destruction Of Diseased 
Tissue Of The Vagina And The Pouch Of Douglas     
147 Incision Of The Vulva     
  
  

--- PAGE 42 ---

UIN: NIAHLIP22025V012223       Page 42 of 48 
YUVA BHARAT HEALTH POLICY 
ANNEXURE II:  
List I – Items for which coverage is not available in the policy 
S No Item 
1 BABY FOOD 
2 BABY UTILITIES CHARGES 
3 BEAUTY SERVICES 
4 BELTS/ BRACES 
5 BUDS 
6 COLD PACK/HOT PACK 
7 CARRY BAGS 
8 EMAIL / INTERNET CHARGES 
9 FOOD CHARGES (OTHER THAN PATIENT's DIET PROVIDED BY HOSPITAL)  
10 LEGGINGS 
11 LAUNDRY CHARGES 
12 MINERAL WATER 
13 SANITARY PAD  
14 TELEPHONE CHARGES 
15 GUEST SERVICES 
16 CREPE BANDAGE 
17 DIAPER OF ANY TYPE 
18 EYELET COLLAR 
19 SLINGS 
20 BLOOD GROUPING AND CROSS MATCHING OF DONORS SAMPLES 
21 SERVICE CHARGES WHERE NURSING CHARGE ALSO CHARGED 
22 Television Charges 
23 SURCHARGES 
24 ATTENDANT CHARGES 
25 EXTRA DIET OF PATIENT (OTHER THAN THAT WHICH FORMS PART OF BED CHARGE)  
26 BIRTH CERTIFICATE 
27 CERTIFICATE CHARGES 
28 COURIER CHARGES 
29 CONVEYANCE CHARGES 
30 MEDICAL CERTIFICATE 
31 MEDICAL RECORDS 
32 PHOTOCOPIES CHARGES 
33 MORTUARY CHARGES  
34 WALKING AIDS CHARGES 
35 OXYGEN CYLINDER (FOR USAGE OUTSIDE THE HOSPITAL)  
36 SPACER  
37 SPIROMETRE  
38 NEBULIZER KIT 
39 STEAM INHALER 
40 ARMSLING 
41 THERMOMETER 
42 CERVICAL COLLAR 
43 SPLINT 
44 DIABETIC FOOT WEAR 
45 KNEE BRACES (LONG/ SHORT/ HINGED)  
46 KNEE IMMOBILIZER/SHOULDER IMMOBILIZER 
47 LUMBO SACRAL BELT 
48 NIMBUS BED OR WATER OR AIR BED CHARGES 

--- PAGE 43 ---

UIN: NIAHLIP22025V012223       Page 43 of 48 
YUVA BHARAT HEALTH POLICY 
 
List II – Items that are to be subsumed into Room Charges 
49 AMBULANCE COLLAR 
50 AMBULANCE EQUIPMENT 
51 ABDOMINAL BINDER 
52 PRIVATE NURSES CHARGES- SPECIAL NURSING CHARGES  
53  SUGAR FREE Tablets 
54 CREAMS POWDERS LOTIONS (Toiletries are not payable, only prescribed medical pharmaceuticals 
payable) 
55 ECG ELECTRODES 
56 GLOVES 
57 NEBULISATION KIT 
58 ANY KIT WITH NO DETAILS MENTIONED [DELIVERY KIT, ORTHOKIT, RECOVERY KIT, ETC] 
59 KIDNEY TRAY 
60 MASK  
61 OUNCE GLASS 
62 OXYGEN MASK 
63 PELVIC TRACTION BELT  
64 PAN CAN 
65 TROLLY COVER 
66 UROMETER, URINE JUG 
67 AMBULANCE 
68 VASOFIX SAFETY 
S No Item 
1 BABY CHARGES (UNLESS SPECIFIED/INDICATED) 
2 HAND WASH 
3 SHOE COVER 
4 CAPS 
5 CRADLE CHARGES 
6 COMB 
7 EAU-DE-COLOGNE / ROOM FRESHNERS 
8 FOOT COVER 
9 GOWN 
10 SLIPPERS  
11 TISSUE PAPER 
12 TOOTH PASTE 
13 TOOTH BRUSH 
14 BED PAN 
15 FACE MASK 
16 FLEXI MASK 
17 HAND HOLDER 
18 SPUTUM CUP  
19 DISINFECTANT LOTIONS 
20 LUXURY TAX 
21 HVAC 
22 HOUSE KEEPING CHARGES 
23 AIR CONDITIONER CHARGES 
24 IM IV INJECTION CHARGES  
25 CLEAN SHEET 
26 BLANKET/WARMER BLANKET 
27 ADMISSION KIT 
28 DIABETIC CHART CHARGES 

--- PAGE 44 ---

UIN: NIAHLIP22025V012223       Page 44 of 48 
YUVA BHARAT HEALTH POLICY 
 
List III – Items that are to be subsumed into Procedure Charges 
 
List IV – Items that are to be subsumed into costs of treatment 
29 DOCUMENTATION CHARGES / ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES 
30 DISCHARGE PROCEDURE CHARGES 
31 DAILY CHART CHARGES 
32 ENTRANCE PASS / VISITORS PASS CHARGES 
33 EXPENSES RELATED TO PRESCRIPTION ON DISCHARGE 
34 FILE OPENING CHARGES 
35 INCIDENTAL EXPENSES / MISC. CHARGES (NOT EXPLAINED) 
36 PATIENT IDENTIFICATION BAND / NAME TAG 
37 PULSEOXYMETER CHARGES 
S No Item 
1 HAIR REMOVAL CREAM 
2 DISPOSABLES RAZORS CHARGES (for site preparations) 
3 EYE PAD 
4 EYE SHEILD 
5 CAMERA COVER 
6 DVD, CD CHARGES 
7 GAUSE SOFT 
8 GAUZE 
9 WARD AND THEATRE BOOKING CHARGES 
10 ARTHROSCOPY AND ENDOSCOPY INSTRUMENTS 
11 MICROSCOPE COVER  
12 SURGICAL BLADES, HARMONICSCALPEL,SHAVER 
13 SURGICAL DRILL 
14 EYE KIT  
15 EYE DRAPE 
16 X-RAY FILM 
17 BOYLES APPARATUS CHARGES 
18 COTTON 
19 COTTON BANDAGE 
20 SURGICAL TAPE 
21 APRON 
22 TORNIQUET  
23 ORTHOBUNDLE, GYNAEC BUNDLE 
S No Item 
1 ADMISSION/REGISTRATION CHARGES 
2 HOSPITALISATION FOR EVALUATION/ DIAGNOSTIC PURPOSE 
3 URINE CONTAINER 
4 BLOOD RESERVATION CHARGES AND ANTE NATAL BOOKING CHARGES  
5 BIPAP MACHINE 
6 CPAP/ CAPD EQUIPMENTS 
7 INFUSION PUMP– COST 
8 HYDROGEN PEROXIDE\SPIRIT\ DISINFECTANTS ETC 
9 NUTRITION PLANNING CHARGES - DIETICIAN CHARGES- DIET CHARGES  
10 HIV KIT 
11 ANTISEPTIC MOUTHWASH 
12 LOZENGES 
13 MOUTH PAINT 

--- PAGE 45 ---

UIN: NIAHLIP22025V012223       Page 45 of 48 
YUVA BHARAT HEALTH POLICY 
 
  
14 VACCINATION CHARGES 
15 ALCOHOL SWABES 
16 SCRUB SOLUTION/STERILLIUM 
17 Glucometer& Strips 
18 URINE BAG 

--- PAGE 46 ---

UIN: NIAHLIP22025V012223       Page 46 of 48 
YUVA BHARAT HEALTH POLICY 
Annexure-III 
The contact details of the Insurance Ombudsman offices are as below- 
AHMEDABAD - Shri Kuldip Singh  
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,  
Jeevan Prakash Building, 6th floor,  
Tilak Marg, Relief Road, Ahmedabad – 380 001.  
Tel.: 079 - 25501201/02/05/06  
Email: bimalokpal.ahmedabad@ecoi.co.in  
BHOPAL - Shri Guru Saran Shrivastava  
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,  
Janak Vihar Complex, 2nd Floor, 6, Malviya 
Nagar, Opp. Airtel Office, Near New 
Market, Bhopal – 462 003.  
Tel.: 0755 - 2769201 / 2769202  
Fax: 0755 - 2769203  
Email: bimalokpal.bhopal@ecoi.co.in  
BHUBANESHWAR - Shri Suresh Chandra Panda  
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,  
62, Forest park, Bhubneshwar – 751 009.  
Tel.: 0674 - 2596461 /2596455  
Fax: 0674 - 2596429  
Email: bimalokpal.bhubaneswar@ecoi.co.in  
CHANDIGARH - Dr. Dinesh Kumar Verma  
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,  
S.C.O. No. 101, 102 & 103, 2nd Floor,  
Batra Building, Sector 17 – D, Chandigarh – 160 017.  
Tel.: 0172 - 2706196 / 2706468  
Fax: 0172 - 2708274  
Email: bimalokpal.chandigarh@ecoi.co.in  
CHENNAI - Shri M. Vasantha Krishna  
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,  
Fatima Akhtar Court, 4th Floor, 453,  
Anna Salai, Teynampet, CHENNAI – 600 018.  
Tel.: 044 - 24333668 / 24335284  
Fax: 044 - 24333664 ,Email: bimalokpal.chennai@ecoi.co.in  
DELHI - Shri Sudhir Krishna  
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 2/2 A, 
Universal Insurance Building,  
Asaf Ali Road, New Delhi – 110 002.  
Tel.: 011 - 23232481/23213504  
Email: bimalokpal.delhi@ecoi.co.in  
GUWAHATI - Shri Kiriti .B. Saha  
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,  
Jeevan Nivesh, 5th Floor,  
Nr. Panbazar over bridge, S.S. Road, Guwahati – 
781001(ASSAM).  
Tel.: 0361 - 2632204 / 2602205  
Email: bimalokpal.guwahati@ecoi.co.in  
HYDERABAD - Shri I. Suresh Babu  
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,  
6-2-46, 1st floor, "Moin Court",  
Lane Opp. Saleem Function Palace, A. C. Guards, Lakdi-Ka-Pool, 
Hyderabad - 500 004.  
Tel.: 040 - 67504123 / 23312122  
Fax: 040 - 23376599 Email: bimalokpal.hyderabad@ecoi.co.in  
ERNAKULAM - Ms. Poonam Bodra  
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,  
2nd Floor, Pulinat Bldg., Opp. Cochin Shipyard, M. G. Road, 
Ernakulam - 682 015.  
Tel.: 0484 - 2358759 / 2359338  
Fax: 0484 - 2359336  
Email: bimalokpal.ernakulam@ecoi.co.in  
KOLKATA - Shri P. K. Rath  
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 
Hindustan Bldg. Annexe, 4th Floor, 4, C.R. 
Avenue, KOLKATA - 700 072.  
Tel.: 033 - 22124339 / 22124340  
Fax : 033 - 22124341  
Email: bimalokpal.kolkata@ecoi.co.in  
LUCKNOW -Shri Justice Anil Kumar Srivastava  
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,  
6th Floor, Jeevan Bhawan, Phase-II,  
Nawal Kishore Road, Hazratganj, Lucknow - 226 001.  
Tel.: 0522 - 2231330 / 2231331  
Fax: 0522 - 2231310  
Email: bimalokpal.lucknow@ecoi.co.in  
MUMBAI - Shri Milind A. Kharat  
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,  
3rd Floor, Jeevan Seva Annexe,  
S. V. Road, Santacruz (W), Mumbai - 400 054.  
Tel.: 022 - 26106552 / 26106960  
Fax: 022 - 26106052  
Email: bimalokpal.mumbai@ecoi.co.in  
JAIPUR - Smt. Sandhya Baliga  
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,  
Jeevan Nidhi – II Bldg., Gr. Floor, Bhawani Singh 
Marg, Jaipur - 302 005.  
Tel.: 0141 - 2740363  
Email: bimalokpal.jaipur@ecoi.co.in  
PUNE - Shri Vinay Sah  
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,  
Jeevan Darshan Bldg., 3rd Floor,  
C.T.S. No.s. 195 to 198, N.C. Kelkar Road, Narayan Peth, 
Pune – 411 030.  
Tel.: 020-41312555 Email: bimalokpal.pune@ecoi.co.in  
BENGALURU - Smt. Neerja Shah  
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,  
Jeevan Soudha Building,PID No. 57-27-N-19 Ground Floor, 
19/19, 24th Main Road,  
JP Nagar, Ist Phase, Bengaluru – 560 078.  
Tel.: 080 - 26652048 / 26652049  
Email: bimalokpal.bengaluru@ecoi.co.in  
NOIDA - Shri Chandra Shekhar Prasad  
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,  
Bhagwan Sahai Palace, 4th Floor, Main Road, Naya Bans, 
Sector 15, Distt: Gautam Buddh Nagar, U.P-201301.  
Tel.: 0120-2514250 / 2514252 / 2514253  
Email: bimalokpal.noida@ecoi.co.in  
PATNA - Shri N. K. Singh  
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,  
1st Floor,Kalpana Arcade Building,,  
Bazar Samiti Road, Bahadurpur, Patna 800 006.  
Tel.: 0612-2680952 Email: bimalokpal.patna@ecoi.co.in  
  
 
  

--- PAGE 47 ---

UIN: NIAHLIP22025V012223       Page 47 of 48 
YUVA BHARAT HEALTH POLICY 
Annexure – IV 
 
Table of Coverages/Procedures with Sub-limits and Waiting Periods 
Nature of Disease/Procedure/Treatment Sublimit (Per Policy Period) Waiting 
Period 
Congenital Internal Disease (Waiting Period Not 
Applicable for New Born Baby) Not Applicable 12 Months 
Congenital External Disease (Waiting Period Not 
Applicable for New Born Baby) 
Up to 10% of the average Sum Insured in the 
preceding 24 months 24 Months 
Artificial life maintenance (This sub limit is 
applicable only for person who is declared to be 
in a vegetative state as certified by the treating 
medical practitioner) 
Up to 25% of the Sum Insured and a 
Maximum of 15 days NIL 
Puberty and Menopause related Disorders Up to 25% of the Sum Insured 12 Months 
Age Related Macular Degeneration (ARMD)  Up to 20% of the Sum Insured 24 Months 
Genetic diseases or disorders  Up to 25% of the Sum Insured 24 Months 
Treatment of Mental Illness (ICD Code: F01-F29 & 
F60-F79) Up to 25% of the Sum Insured 24 Months 
Diabetes Mellitus NIL 90 Days 
Hypertension NIL 90 Days 
Cardiac Conditions NIL 90 Days 
All internal and external benign tumours, cysts, 
polyps of any kind, including benign breast lumps NIL 12 Months 
Benign ear, nose, throat disorders NIL 12 Months 
Benign prostate hypertrophy NIL 12 Months 
Age related eye ailments NIL 12 Months 
Gastric/ Duodenal Ulcer NIL 12 Months 
Gout and Rheumatism NIL 12 Months 
Hernia of all types  NIL 12 Months 
Hydrocele NIL 12 Months 
Non Infective Arthritis NIL 12 Months 
Piles, Fissures and Fistula in anus NIL 12 Months 
Pilonidal sinus, Sinusitis and related disorders NIL 12 Months 
Prolapse inter Vertebral Disc and Spinal Diseases 
unless arising from accident NIL 12 Months 
Skin Disorders NIL 12 Months 
Stone in Gall Bladder and Bile duct, excluding 
malignancy NIL 12 Months 
Stones in Urinary system NIL 12 Months 
Treatment for Menorrhagia/Fibromyoma, 
Myoma and Prolapsed uterus  NIL 12 Months 
Varicose Veins and Varicose Ulcers NIL 12 Months 
Renal Failure NIL 12 Months 
Joint Replacement due to Degenerative 
Condition NIL 24 Months 
Age-related Osteoarthritis & Osteoporosis NIL 24 Months 
Treatment or Procedure 5/10/15 
Lakhs (L) 25 Lakhs (L) 50 Lakhs (L) Waiting 
Period 
Uterine Artery Embolization and HIFU (High 
intensity focused ultrasound) Upto Rs. 1 L Upto Rs. 1.5 L Upto Rs. 2 L NIL 
Balloon Sinuplasty Upto Rs. 1 L Upto Rs. 1.5 L Upto Rs. 2 L NIL 
Deep Brain stimulation Upto Rs. 2 L Upto Rs. 3.5 L Upto Rs. 5 L NIL 

--- PAGE 48 ---

UIN: NIAHLIP22025V012223       Page 48 of 48 
YUVA BHARAT HEALTH POLICY 
Oral chemotherapy Upto Rs. 
50,000 
Upto Rs. 
75,000 Upto Rs. 1 L NIL 
Immunotherapy- Monoclonal Antibody to be 
given as injection Upto Rs 1 L Upto Rs. 2 L Upto Rs. 3 L NIL 
Intravitreal injections Upto Rs. 
75,000 Upto Rs. 1 L Upto Rs. 1.5 
L NIL 
Robotic surgeries Upto Rs. 2 L Upto Rs. 3.5 L Upto Rs. 5 L NIL 
Stereotactic radio surgeries Upto Rs. 2 L Upto Rs. 2.5 L Upto Rs. 3 L NIL 
Bronchial Thermoplasty Upto Rs. 1 L Upto Rs. 1.5 L Upto Rs. 2 L NIL 
Vaporisation of the prostrate (Green laser 
treatment or holmium laser treatment) Upto Rs. 1 L Upto Rs. 1.5 L Upto Rs. 2 L NIL 
IONM - (Intra Operative Neuro Monitoring) Upto Rs. 
30,000 
Upto Rs. 
50,000 
Upto Rs. 
75,000 NIL 
Stem cell therapy: Hematopoietic stem cells for 
bone marrow transplant for haematological 
conditions to be covered 
Upto Rs. 1.5 
L Upto 2 L Upto 2.5 L NIL 
Cataract (per eye/per Insured.)  Up to 
50,000 Up to 75,000 Up to 1 L 12 Months 
Hazardous Sports for recreational purpose Upto Rs. 1 L Upto Rs. 1.5 L Upto Rs. 2 L  
Benefit / Coverage 5/10/15 
Lakhs (L) 25 Lakhs (L) 50 Lakhs (L) Waiting 
Period 
Critical Care Benefit (In Addition to Sum Insured) Rs. 1 L Rs. 1.5 L Rs. 2.5 L 12 Months 
Maternity Coverage Up to Rs. 25,000 24 Months 
Infertility Treatment Up to Rs. 
50,000 
Up to Rs. 
75,000 Up to  Rs. 1 L 24 Months 
Vaccination Expenses (Applicable for a New Born 
Baby) Up to 0.1% of Sum Insured NIL 
Pre Mature / Pre-Term Baby Up to Rs. 
30,000 
Up to Rs. 
40,000 
Up to Rs. 
50,000 24 Months 
Birth Right Benefit (In Addition to Sum Insured) Rs. 30,000 Rs. 40,000 Rs. 50,000 24 Months