--- PAGE 1 ---

1 of 20Unique Identiﬁcation No.: SHAHLIP23017V012223Star Health Assure Insurance Policy POL / SHA / V.1 / 2022
STAR HEALTH AND ALLIED INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
Regd. & Corporate Ofﬁce: 1, New Tank Street, Valluvar Kottam High Road, Nungambakkam, 
Chennai - 600 034. « Phone : 044 - 28288800 « Email : support@starhealth.in 
Website : www.starhealth.in « CIN : L66010TN2005PLC056649 « IRDAI Regn. No. : 129
Kind Attention: Policyholder
Please check whether the details given by you about the insured persons in the proposal form (a copy of which was provided at the 
time of issuance of cover for the ﬁrst time) are incorporated correctly in the policy schedule. If you ﬁnd any discrepancy, please inform 
us within 15 days from the date of receipt of the policy, failing which the details relating to the person/s covered would be taken as 
correct.
So also the coverage details may also be gone through and in the absence of any communication from you within 15 days from the 
date of receipt of this policy, it would be construed that the policy issued is correct and the claims if any arise under the policy will be 
dealt with based on proposal / policy details.
SI.
No.
Title Description Refer to Policy
Clause NumberProduct Name Star Health Assure Insurance Policy
1 What am I 
covered for
A In-patient Treatment - Covers hospitalization expenses for period more than 24 hrs B(1,2,3)
B All Day Care Procedures are covered B(4)
C Coverage for Non-medical Items - If there is an admissible claim under the policy, then Items as per List I will become payable 
speciﬁed in the policy B(5)
D Road ambulance expenses - Expenses incurred for transportation of the insured person by private ambulance service to go to 
hospital and transportation from one hospital to another hospital for better medical treatment and for transportation from hospital 
to residence.
B(6)
E Air Ambulance - Expenses incurred towards the cost of air ambulance service up to 10% of sum insured per policy year B(7)
F Pre-Hospitalization - Medical Expenses incurred up to 60 days prior to hospitalization B(8)
G Post-Hospitalization - Medical Expenses incurred up to 180 days after discharge from the hospital B(9)
H Domiciliary Hospitalization - Coverage for medical treatment for a period exceeding three days B(10)
I Organ Donor Expenses - In patient hospitalization expenses incurred for organ transplantation from the Donor to the Recipient 
Insured Person are payable provided the claim for transplantation is payable. B(11)
J Health Checkup Assure - Expenses incurred towards cost of health check-up up to the limits for each policy year (irrespective of 
claim). B(12)
K Home care treatment - Payable up to 10% of the sum insured subject to maximum of Rs.5 lakhs in a policy year, for treatment 
availed by the Insured Person at home B(13)
L Delivery Expenses - Expenses for a Delivery including Delivery by Caesarean section (including pre-natal and postnatal 
expenses) up-to 10% of the Sum Insured is payable B(14)
M In Utero Fetal Surgery/Intervention - The Company will pay the expenses incurred for In Utero Fetal Surgeries and Procedures 
mentioned after the waiting period of 24 months from the date of inception of this policy B(15)
N Assisted Reproduction Treatment - The Company will reimburse medical expenses incurred on Assisted Reproduction 
Treatment upto the limits mentioned B(16)
O Hospitalization expenses for treatment of New Born Baby - Expenses upto the limits mentioned B(17)
P Treatment for Chronic Severe Refractory Asthma - payable up to 10% of sum insured not exceeding Rs.5 lakhs per policy period B(18)
Q Compassionate travel - The Company will reimburse the transportation expenses by air incurred upto Rs.10,000/- for one 
immediate family member(other than the travel companion) for travel towards the place where hospital is located B(19)
R Repatriation of Mortal Remains - The Company shall reimburse up to Rs.15,000/- in a policy year towards the cost of 
repatriation of mortal remains of the insured person B(20)
S Treatment in Valuable service providers network - 1% of Sum Insured subject to a maximum of Rs.5,000/- per policy period is 
payable as lump sum B(21)
T Shared accommodation - If the Insured person occupies, a shared accommodation during in-patient hospitalization, then 
amount of Rs.1,000/- per day will be payable B(22)
U AYUSH Treatment - Medical expenses for Inpatient Hospitalization incurred on treatment under Ayurveda, Unani, Sidha and 
Homeopathy systems of medicines in a AYUSH Hospital is payable up to the sum insured. B(23)
V Second Medical Opinion - The Insured Person can obtain a Second Medical Opinion from a Doctor in the Company's network 
of Medical Practitioners. B(24)
W Coverage for Modern Treatment - Covered upto sum insured B(25)
X Automatic Restoration of Sum Insured - The policy provides automatic restoration of sum insured for unlimited number of 
times and maximum upto 100% each time. B(27)
Y Rehabilitation and Pain Management - The company will pay the medical expenses for Rehabilitation and Pain Management 
up to the sub-limit (or) maximum up to 20% of the sum insured whichever is less, per policy year B(28)
Z Star Wellness Program B(29)
AA Optional Cover to choose Deductible B(31)
Customer Information Sheet - Star Health Assure Insurance Policy
Unique Identiﬁcation No.: SHAHLIP23017V012223

--- PAGE 2 ---

2 of 20Unique Identiﬁcation No.: SHAHLIP23017V012223Star Health Assure Insurance Policy POL / SHA / V.1 / 2022
SI.
No. Product Name Description Refer to Policy 
Clause Number
2
What are the 
Major 
Exclusions in 
the policy
I. Any hospital admission primarily for investigation diagnostic purpose C(4)
II. Pregnancy, infertility C(17) and C(18)
III. Treatment outside India D(23)
IV. Circumcision, sex change surgery, cosmetic surgery & plastic surgery C(7), C(8) and C(19)
V. Refractive error correction, hearing impairment correction, corrective & cosmetic dental surgeries C(15) and C(30)
VI. Substance abuse, self-inﬂicted injuries C(12) and C(22)
VII. Hazardous sports, war, terrorism, civil war or breach of law C(9), C(10) and C(23) 
VIII. Any hospitalization which are not medically necessary / does not warrant hospitalization C (31)
(Note: the above is a partial listing of the policy exclusions. Please refer to the policy clauses for the full listing)
3 Waiting
Periods
Initial waiting period C(3)
Speciﬁc waiting period C(2)
Pre-existing diseases C(1)
4 Payment
Basis
Reimbursement of covered expenses up to speciﬁed limit B(1,7,12,16,17,19, 
20,28)Fixed amount on the occurrence of a covered event
5 Loss Sharing 
In case of a claim, this policy requires you to share the following costs:
Expenses exceeding the followings
Sublimits
1. Room/ICU charges beyond _______
2. For the following speciﬁed diseases
3. Deductible of Rs…… per claim / per year / both
4. Co-payment : 10% of each and every claim amount
B(1)
B(25)
B(31)
B(30) 
6 Renewal 
Condition
Lifelong Renewal
D(10)
Grace period of 30 days for renewing the policy is provided
7 Renewal 
Beneﬁts
Cumulative Bonus: 25% of the Sum Insured for each claim free year and maximum upto 100% of Sum Insured B(26)
Health Checkup Assure: Expenses incurred towards cost of health check-up up to the limits for each policy year (irrespective of 
claim). B(12)
8 Cancellation The Company may cancel the policy at any time on grounds of misrepresentation non-disclosure of material fact D(7)
9 Claims
For Cashless Service
D(2)(B and C)
For Reimbursement of claim
10
Policy 
Servicing 
Grievances/ 
Complaints
Company Ofﬁcials
IRDAI/(IGMS/Call Centre)
Ombudsman
D(16) and D(22)
11 Insured's 
Rights
Free Look D(15)
Implied renewability D(10)
Migration and Portability D(8) and D(9)
Increase in SI during the Policy term Nil
Turn Around Time (TAT) for issue of Pre- Auth and settlement of Reimbursement
2 hrs from the time of 
receipt of all necessary 
relevant documents
12 Insured's 
Obligations
Please disclose all pre-existing disease/s or condition/s before buying a policy, Non-disclosure may result in claim not being paid D(1)
Disclosure of Material Information during the policy period such as change in occupation (Note: If applicable, please provide details of 
the format & to whom the form is to be sent) Not Applicable
LEGAL DISCLAIMER NOTE: The information must be read in conjunction with the product brochure and policy document. In case of any conﬂict between the Customer 
Information Sheet and the policy document, the terms and conditions mentioned in the policy document shall prevail

--- PAGE 3 ---

3 of 20Unique Identiﬁcation No.: SHAHLIP23017V012223Star Health Assure Insurance Policy POL / SHA / V.1 / 2022
Beneﬁt Illustration in respect of policies offered on individual and family ﬂoater basis
Age
of the
Members
insured
(in yrs)
Coverage opted on individual basis 
covering each member of the family 
separately
(at a single point of time)
Coverage opted on individual basis covering
multiple members of the family under a single policy
(Sum insured is available for each member of the family)
Coverage opted on family ﬂoater basis with overall Sum insured
(Only one sum insured is available for the entire family)
Premium
(Rs.)
Sum Insured
(Rs.)
Premium
(Rs.)
Discount,
(if any)
Premium
After Discount
(Rs.)
Sum Insured
(Rs.)
Premium or 
consolidated 
premium for all 
members of family
(Rs.)
Floater Discount,
(if any)
Premium
After
Discount
(Rs.)
Sum Insured
(Rs.)
Illustration 1
63 31,872 10,00,000 31,872
Nil
31,872 10,00,000
57,460 6,202 51,258 10,00,000
58 25,588 10,00,000 25,588 25,588 10,00,000
Total Premium for all members of the family is
Rs.57,460/-,
when each member is covered separately.
Sum insured available for each individual is
Rs.10,00,000/-
Total Premium for all members of the family is
Rs.57,460/-,
when they are covered under a single policy.
Sum insured available for each family member is
Rs.10,00,000/-
Total Premium when policy is opted on ﬂoater basis is
Rs.51,258/-,
Sum insured of Rs.10,00,000/-
is available for the entire family (2A)
Illustration 2
54 19,787 10,00,000 19,787
Nil
19,787 10,00,000
57.247 13,084 44,163 10,00,000
51 19,787 10,00,000 19,787 19,787 10,00,000
17 5,891 10,00,000 5,891 5,891 10,00,000
15 5,891 10,00,000 5,891 5,891 10,00,000
13 5,891 10,00,000 5,891 5,891 10,00,000
Total Premium for all members of the family is
Rs.57.247/-,
when each member is covered separately.
Sum insured available for each individual is
Rs.10,00,000/-
Total Premium for all members of the family is
Rs.57.247/-,
when they are covered under a single policy.
Sum insured available for each family member is
Rs.10,00,000/-
Total Premium when policy is opted on ﬂoater basis is
Rs.44,163/-
Sum insured of Rs.10,00,000/-
is available for the entire family (2A+3C)
Note: Premium rates speciﬁed in the above illustration are standard premium rates without considering any loading. Also, the premium rates are exclusive of taxes applicable.
A-Adult | C-Child

--- PAGE 4 ---

4 of 20Unique Identiﬁcation No.: SHAHLIP23017V012223Star Health Assure Insurance Policy POL / SHA / V.1 / 2022
PREAMBLE
The proposal, declaration and other documents given by the proposer shall be the basis of 
this Contract and is deemed to be incorporated herein.
A. DEFINITIONS                                                                                             
STANDARD DEFINITIONS
Accident: An accident means sudden, unforeseen and involuntary event caused by 
external, visible and violent means.
Any one illness: Any one illness means continuous period of illness and includes relapse 
within 45 days from the date of last consultation with the Hospital/Nursing Home where 
treatment was taken.
AYUSH Day Care Centre: AYUSH Day Care Centre means and includes Community 
Health Centre (CHC), Primary Health Centre (PHC), Dispensary, Clinic, Polyclinic or any 
such health centre which is registered with the local authorities, wherever applicable and 
having facilities for carrying out treatment procedures and medical or surgical/para-surgical 
interventions or both under the supervision of registered AYUSH Medical Practitioner (s) on 
day care basis without in-patient services and must comply with all the following criterion:
i. Having qualiﬁed registered AYUSH Medical Practitioner(s) in charge;
ii. Having dedicated AYUSH therapy sections as required and/or has equipped 
operation theatre where surgical procedures are to be carried out;
iii. Maintaining daily records of the patients and making them accessible to the insurance 
company's authorized representative.
AYUSH Hospital: An AYUSH Hospital is a healthcare facility wherein medical/surgical/ 
para-surgical treatment procedures and interventions are carried out by AYUSH Medical 
Practitioner(s) comprising of any of the following:
a. Central or State Government AYUSH Hospital; or
b. Teaching hospital attached to AYUSH College recognized by the Central 
Government/Central Council of Indian Medicine/Central Council for Homeopathy; or
c. AYUSH Hospital, standalone or co-located with in-patient healthcare facility of any 
recognized system of medicine, registered with the local authorities, wherever 
applicable, and is under the supervision of a qualiﬁed registered AYUSH Medical 
Practitioner and must comply with all the following criterion:
i. Having at least 5 in-patient beds;
ii. Having qualiﬁed AYUSH Medical Practitioner in charge round the clock;
iii. Having dedicated AYUSH therapy sections as required and/or has equipped 
operation theatre where surgical procedures are to be carried out;
iv. Maintaining daily records of the patients and making them accessible to the 
insurance company's authorized representative.
Cashless facility: Cashless facility means a facility extended by the insurer to the insured 
where the payments, of the costs of treatment undergone by the insured in accordance 
with the policy terms and conditions, are directly made to the network provider by the 
insurer to the extent pre-authorization is approved.
Condition Precedent: Condition Precedent means a policy term or condition upon which 
the Insurer's liability under the policy is conditional upon.
Congenital Anomaly: Congenital Anomaly means a condition which is present since birth, 
and which is abnormal with reference to form, structure or position.
a) Internal Congenital Anomaly: Congenital anomaly which is not in the visible and 
accessible parts of the body
b) External Congenital Anomaly: Congenital anomaly which is in the visible and 
accessible parts of the body
Co-Payment: Co-payment means a cost sharing requirement under a health insurance 
policy that provides that the policyholder/insured will bear a speciﬁed percentage of the 
admissible claims amount. A co-payment does not reduce the Sum Insured.
Cumulative Bonus: Cumulative Bonus means any increase or addition in the Sum 
Insured granted by the insurer without an associated increase in premium.
Day Care Centre: A day care centre means any institution established for day care treatment 
of illness and/or injuries or a medical setup with a hospital and which has been registered with 
the local authorities, wherever applicable, and is under supervision of a registered and 
qualiﬁed medical practitioner AND must comply with all minimum criterion as under –
i) has qualiﬁed nursing staff under its employment;
ii) has qualiﬁed medical practitioner/s in charge;
iii) has fully equipped operation theatre of its own where surgical procedures are carried out;
iv) maintains daily records of patients and will make these accessible to the insurance 
company's authorized personnel.
Day Care Treatment: Day care treatment means medical treatment, and/or surgical 
procedure which is:
i. Undertaken under General or Local Anesthesia in a hospital/day care centre in less 
than 24 hrs because of technological advancement, and
ii. which would have otherwise required hospitalization of more than 24 hours
Treatment normally taken on an out-patient basis is not included in the scope of this 
deﬁnition
Deductible: Deductible means a cost sharing requirement under a health insurance policy 
that provides that the insurer will not be liable for a speciﬁed rupee amount in case of 
indemnity policies and for a speciﬁed number of days/hours in case of hospital cash 
policies which will apply before any beneﬁts are payable by the insurer. A deductible does 
not reduce the SumInsured.
Dental Treatment: Dental treatment means a treatment related to teeth or structures 
supporting teeth including examinations, ﬁllings (where appropriate), crowns, extractions 
and surgery.
Disclosure to information norm: The policy shall be void and all premium paid thereon 
shall be forfeited to the Company in the event of misrepresentation, mis-description or 
non-disclosure of any material fact.
Domiciliary Hospitalization: Domiciliary hospitalization means medical treatment for an 
illness/disease/injury which in the normal course would require care and treatment at a 
hospital but is actually taken while conﬁned at home under any of the following 
circumstances:
i) the condition of the patient is such that he/she is not in a condition to be removed to a 
hospital, or
ii) the patient takes treatment at home on account of non-availability of room in a hospital
Emergency Care: Emergency care means management for an illness or injury which 
results in symptoms which occur suddenly and unexpectedly, and requires immediate care 
by a medical practitioner to prevent death or serious long term impairment of the insured 
person's health.
Grace Period: Grace period means the speciﬁed period of time immediately following the 
premium due date during which a payment can be made to renew or continue a policy in 
force without loss of continuity beneﬁts such as waiting periods and coverage of 
pre-existing diseases. Coverage is not available for the period for which no premium is 
received.
Hospital: A hospital means any institution established for in-patient care and day care 
treatment of illness and/or injuries and which has been registered as a hospital with the 
local authorities under Clinical Establishments (Registration and Regulation) Act 2010 or 
under enactments speciﬁed under the Schedule of Section 56(1) of the said act Or 
complies with all minimum criteria as under:
i) has qualiﬁed nursing staff under its employment round the clock;
ii) has at least 10 in-patient beds in towns having a population of less than 10,00,000 and 
at least 15 in-patient beds in all other places;
iii) has qualiﬁed medical practitioner(s) in charge round the clock;
iv) has a fully equipped operation theatre of its own where surgical procedures are 
carried out;
v) maintains daily records of patients and makes these accessible to the insurance 
company's authorized personnel;
Hospitalization: Hospitalization means admission in a Hospital for a minimum period of 
24 consecutive 'In-patient Care' hours except for speciﬁed procedures/ treatments, where 
such admission could be for a period of less than 24 consecutive hours.
Illness: Illness means a sickness or a disease or pathological condition leading to the 
impairment of normal physiological function and requires medical treatment;
(a) Acute condition - Acute condition is a disease, illness or injury that is likely to 
respond quickly to treatment which aims to return the person to his or her state of 
health immediately before suffering the disease/ illness/ injury which leads to full 
recovery
(b) Chronic condition - A chronic condition is deﬁned as a disease, illness, or injury that 
has one or more of the following characteristics;
1. It needs ongoing or long-term monitoring through consultations, examinations, 
check-ups, and /or tests
2. it needs ongoing or long-term control or relief of symptoms
3. it requires rehabilitation for the patient or for the patient to be specially trained to 
cope with it
4. it continues indeﬁnitely
5. it recurs or is likely to recur
STAR HEALTH AND ALLIED INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
Regd. & Corporate Ofﬁce: 1, New Tank Street, Valluvar Kottam High Road, Nungambakkam, 
Chennai - 600 034. « Phone : 044 - 28288800 « Email : support@starhealth.in 
Website : www.starhealth.in « CIN : L66010TN2005PLC056649 « IRDAI Regn. No. : 129
STAR HEALTH ASSURE INSURANCE POLICY
Unique Identiﬁcation No.: SHAHLIP23017V012223

--- PAGE 5 ---

5 of 20Unique Identiﬁcation No.: SHAHLIP23017V012223Star Health Assure Insurance Policy POL / SHA / V.1 / 2022
Injury: Injury means accidental physical bodily harm excluding illness or disease solely 
and directly caused by external, violent, visible and evident means which is veriﬁed and 
certiﬁed by a Medical Practitioner.
Inpatient Care: Inpatient care means treatment for which the insured person has to stay in 
a hospital for more than 24 hours for a covered event.
Intensive Care Unit: Intensive care unit means an identiﬁed section, ward or wing of a 
hospital which is under the constant supervision of a dedicated medical practitioner(s), and 
which is specially equipped for the continuous monitoring and treatment of patients who 
are in a critical condition, or require life support facilities and where the level of care and 
supervision is considerably more sophisticated and intensive than in the ordinary and other 
wards.
ICU Charges: ICU (Intensive Care Unit) Charges means the amount charged by a 
Hospital towards ICU expenses which shall include the expenses for ICU bed, general 
medical support services provided to any ICU patient including monitoring devices, critical 
care nursing and intensivist charges.
Medical Advice: Medical Advice means any consultation or advice from a Medical 
Practitioner including the issuance of any prescription or follow-up prescription.
Medical Expenses: Medical Expenses means those expenses that an Insured Person has 
necessarily and actually incurred for medical treatment on account of Illness or Accident on 
the advice of a Medical Practitioner, as long as these are no more than would have been 
payable if the Insured Person had not been insured and no more than other hospitals or 
doctors in the same locality would have charged for the same medical treatment.
Medical Practitioner: Medical Practitioner means a person who holds a valid registration 
from the Medical Council of any State or Medical Council of India or Council for Indian 
Medicine or for Homeopathy set up by the Government of India or a State Government and 
is thereby entitled to practice medicine within its jurisdiction; and is acting within its scope 
and jurisdiction of license.
Medically Necessary Treatment: Medically necessary treatment means any treatment, 
tests, medication, or stay in hospital or part of a stay in hospital which:
i) is required for the medical management of the illness or injury suffered by the insured;
ii) must not exceed the level of care necessary to provide safe, adequate and 
appropriate medical care in scope, duration, or intensity;
iii) must have been prescribed by a medical practitioner;
iv) must conform to the professional standards widely accepted in international medical 
practice or by the medical community In India.
Migration: “Migration” means, the right accorded to health insurance policyholders 
(including all members under family cover and members of group health insurance policy), 
to transfer the credit gained for pre-existing conditions and time bound exclusions, with the 
same insurer.
Network Provider: Network Provider means hospitals or health care providers enlisted by 
an insurer, TPA or jointly by an Insurer and TPA to provide medical services to an insured by 
a cashless facility.
New Born Baby: Newborn baby means baby born during the Policy Period and is aged 
upto 90 days.
Non-Network Provider: Non-Network means any hospital, day care centre or other 
provider that is not part of the network.
Notiﬁcation of Claim: Notiﬁcation of claim means the process of intimating a claim to the 
insurer or TPA through any of the recognized modes of communication.
OPD treatment: OPD treatment means the one in which the Insured visits a clinic / hospital 
or associated facility like a consultation room for diagnosis and treatment based on the 
advice of a Medical Practitioner. The Insured is not admitted as a day care or in-patient.
Pre-Existing Disease: Pre-existing Disease means any condition, ailment, injury or 
disease:
a) That is/are diagnosed by a physician within 48 months prior to the effective date of the 
policy issued by the insurer or its reinstatement
or
b) For which medical advice or treatment was recommended by, or received from, a 
physician within 48 months prior to the effective date of the policy issued by the insurer 
or its reinstatement
Pre-hospitalization Medical Expenses: Pre-hospitalization Medical Expenses means 
medical expenses incurred during pre-deﬁned number of days preceding the 
hospitalization of the Insured Person, provided that:
i. Such Medical Expenses are incurred for the same condition for which the Insured 
Person's Hospitalization was required, and
ii. The In-patient Hospitalization claim for such Hospitalization is admissible by the 
Insurance Company
Portability: “Portability” means, the right accorded to individual health insurance 
policyholders (including all members under family cover), to transfer the credit gained for 
pre-existing conditions and time bound exclusions, from one insurer to another insurer.
Post-hospitalization Medical Expenses: Post-hospitalization Medical Expenses means 
medical expenses incurred during pre-deﬁned number of days immediately after the 
insured person is discharged from the hospital provided that:
i. Such Medical Expenses are for the same condition for which the insured person's 
hospitalization was required, and
ii. The inpatient hospitalization claim for such hospitalization is admissible by the 
insurance company.
Qualiﬁed Nurse: Qualiﬁed nurse means a person who holds a valid registration from the 
Nursing Council of India or the Nursing Council of any state In India.
Reasonable and Customary Charges: Reasonable and Customary charges means the 
charges for services or supplies, which are the standard charges for the speciﬁc provider 
and consistent with the prevailing charges in the geographical area for identical or similar 
services, taking into account the nature of the illness / injury involved.
Renewal: Renewal means the terms on which the contract of insurance can be renewed 
on mutual consent with a provision of grace period for treating the renewal continuous for 
the purpose of gaining credit for pre-existing diseases, time-bound exclusions and for all 
waiting periods.
Room Rent: Room Rent means the amount charged by a Hospital towards Room and 
Boarding expenses and shall include the associated medical expenses.
Surgery or Surgical Procedure: Surgery or Surgical Procedure means manual and / or 
operative procedure(s) required for treatment of an illness or injury, correction of 
deformities and defects, diagnosis and cure of diseases, relief from suffering and 
prolongation of life, performed in a hospital or day care centre by a medical practitioner.
Unproven/Experimental treatment: Unproven/Experimental treatment means the 
treatment including drug experimental therapy which is not based on established medical 
practice in India, is treatment experimental or unproven.
SPECIFIC DEFINITIONS
Advanced Medicine: Advanced Medicine means targeted therapy with Monoclonal 
antibodies such as NUCALA (Mepoluzimab) which are Proven and are used to treat 
Chronic severe refractory asthma.
Associated medical expenses: Associated Medical Expenses means expenses that 
shall include the applicable nursing charges, Operation theatre charges, Professional fees 
of Medical Practitioner including Surgeon/ anaesthetist/ Physician/Specialist of the 
Hospital where the Insured Person has been admitted and treated and hence 
Proportionate deduction will be applicable on these items.
“Associated Medical Expenses” does not include cost of pharmacy and consumables, cost 
of implants and medical devices and cost of diagnostics, ICU charges and hence 
Proportionate deduction will not be applicable on these items.
Assisted Reproduction Treatment: Assisted Reproduction Treatment means Intra 
UterineInsemination (IUI), Intra-Cytoplasmic Sperm Injection (ICSI), In-Vitro Fertilisation 
(IVF) and TESA / TESE (Testicular / Epididymal Sperm Aspiration / Extraction)
AYUSH Treatment: AYUSH Treatment refers to the medical and / or hospitalization 
treatments given under 'Ayurveda, Yoga and Naturopathy, Unani, Siddha and 
Homeopathy systems'.
Company / Insurer: Company / Insurer means Star Health and Allied Insurance Company 
Limited
Dependent Child: Dependent Child means a child (natural or legally adopted) who is 
ﬁnancially dependent and does not have his / her independent sources of income and upto 
17 years of age.
Diagnosis: Diagnosis means diagnosis by a registered medical practitioner, supported by 
clinical, radiological, histological, histo-pathological and laboratory evidence and also 
surgical evidence wherever applicable, acceptable to the Company.
Diseases of Spine: Diseases of Spine includes injuries to the spine and/or Infections to 
the spine and/or a blocked blood supply and/or compression by a fractured bone and/or a 
tumour resulting in neurological sequelae.
Family: Family includes Insured Person, spouse, dependent children between 16 days to 
17 years of age not exceeding 3 in number Dependent Parent and Dependent Parents in law.
Head Injury: If a person sustained traumatic injury to brain / skull with (or) without loss of 
consciousness
Home: Home means the Insured Person's place of residence
Home Care Treatment: Home Care Treatment means treatment availed by the Insured 
Person at home, which in normal course would require care and treatment at a hospital but 
is actually taken at home provided that:
a) The Medical practitioner advices the Insured person to undergo treatment at home
b) There is a continuous active line of treatment with monitoring of the health status by a 
medical practitioner for each day through the duration of the home care treatment
c) Daily monitoring chart including records of treatment administered duly signed by the 
treating doctor is maintained
Insured Person: Insured Person means the name/s of persons named in the schedule of 
the Policy
Instalment: Instalment means frequency of Premium amount paid through Quarterly / 
Half-yearly mode by the Policy Holder/ Insured
In-Patient: In-Patient means an Insured Person who is admitted to Hospital and stays 
there for a minimum period of 24 hours for the sole purpose of receiving treatment.
Limit of Coverage: Limit of Coverage means Sum Insured plus Cumulative bonus earned 
wherever applicable
Poly trauma If a person sustained a two or more severe injuries/ fractures in two or more 
areas of the body.
Policy Period / Policy year: Policy period / Policy year means a year following the 
commencement date and its subsequent annual anniversary

--- PAGE 6 ---

6 of 20Unique Identiﬁcation No.: SHAHLIP23017V012223Star Health Assure Insurance Policy POL / SHA / V.1 / 2022
Policy term: Policy term means the period between the commencement date and expiry 
date speciﬁed in the schedule
Shared accommodation: Shared accommodation means a room with two or more patient 
beds in a Network Hospital.
Rehabilitation: Rehabilitation is deﬁned as “a set of interventions designed to optimize 
functioning and reduce disability in individuals with health conditions in interaction with 
their environment”.
Stroke: Any cerebrovascular incident producing permanent neurological sequelae
Sum Insured: Sum Insured means the Sum Insured Opted for and for which the premium 
is paid.
Zone
Zone A - Delhi including Faridabad, Gurgaon, Ghaziabad and Noida, Mumbai including 
Thane, Ahmedabad, Surat and Vadodara
Zone B - Pune including Nashik, Trivandrum, Ernakulam, Chennai, Bengaluru, 
Hyderabad, Secunderabad and Rest of Gujarat
Zone C - Rest of India
B. COVERAGE                                                                                             
In consideration of the premium paid, subject to the terms, conditions, exclusions and 
deﬁnitions contained herein the Company agrees as under.
If during the period stated in the Policy Schedule the insured person sustains bodily 
injury or contracts any disease or suffer from any illness requiring Hospitalization and 
incurs expenses at any Nursing Home / Hospital in India as an In-patient, the Company 
will indemnify the Insured Person such expenses as are reasonably and necessarily 
incurred under the heads given below but not exceeding the Limit of Coverage stated in the 
Policy schedule.
1. Room, Boarding, Nursing Expenses all inclusive as provided by the Hospital / Nursing 
Home as per the limits given below:-
Note: Associated Medical expenses which vary based on the room occupied by the 
insured person will be considered in proportion to the room rent stated in the policy 
schedule or actuals whichever is less. Proportionate deductions are not applied in 
respect of the hospitals which do not follow differential billing or for those expenses in 
respect of which differential billing is not adopted based on the room rent.
2. Surgeon, Anesthetist, Medical Practitioner, Consultants, Specialist Fees.
3. Anesthesia, blood, oxygen, operation theatre charges, ICU charges, surgical 
appliances, medicines and drugs, diagnostic materials and X-ray, diagnostic imaging 
modalities, dialysis, chemotherapy, radiotherapy, cost of pacemaker, stent and similar 
expenses. With regard to coronary stenting, medicines, Implants and such other 
similar items the Company will pay cost of stent as per the Drug Price Control Order 
(DPCO) / National Pharmaceuticals Pricing Authority (NPPA) Capping.
4. All day care treatments are covered.
5. Coverage for Non-medical Items (Consumables): If there is an admissible claim 
under inpatient / day care the policy, then Items as per List I will become payable
6. Emergency Road ambulance: Subject to an admissible hospitalization claim, road 
ambulance expenses incurred for the following are payable :-
i. for transportation of the insured person by private ambulance service to go to 
hospital when this is needed for medical reasons 
or
ii. for transportation of the insured person by private ambulance service from one 
hospital to another hospital for better medical treatment  
or
iii. for transportation of the insured person from the hospital where treatment is 
taken to their place of residence (if it is in same city) provided the requirement of 
an ambulance to the residence is certiﬁed by the medical practitioner.
7. Air Ambulance: Air ambulance expenses are payable subject to an admissible 
hospitalization claim, the Insured Person(s) is/are eligible for reimbursement of 
expenses incurred towards the cost of air ambulance service up to10% of sum 
insured per policy year, provided that 
a) It is for emergency care of the insured person which requires immediate and 
rapid ambulance transportation to the hospital/medical centre that ground 
transportation cannot be provided.
b) Necessary medical treatment not being available at the location where the 
Insured Person is situated at the time of Emergency
c) It is prescribed by a Medical Practitioner and is Medically Necessary;
d) The insured person is in India and the treatment is in India only
e) Such Air ambulance should have been duly licensed to operate as such by 
Competent Authorities of the Government/s.
8. Pre-hospitalization Expenses: Medical expenses incurred up to 60 days 
immediately before the insured person is hospitalized.
9. Post Hospitalization Expenses: Medical expenses incurred up to 180 days 
immediately after the insured person is discharged from the hospital.
10. Domiciliary Hospitalization: Coverage for medical treatment (Including AYUSH) for 
a period exceeding three days, for an illness/disease/injury, which in the normal 
course, would require care and treatment at a Hospital but, on the advice of the 
attending Medical Practitioner,  is taken whilst conﬁned at home under any of the 
following circumstances
1. The condition of the patient is such that he/she is not in a condition to be removed 
to a Hospital, or
2. The patient takes treatment at home on account of non-availability of room in a 
hospital.
However, this beneﬁt shall not cover Asthma, Bronchitis, Chronic Nephritis and 
Nephritic Syndrome, Diarrhoea and all types of Dysenteries including Gastro-
enteritis, Diabetes Mellitus and Insipidus, Epilepsy, Hypertension, Inﬂuenza, Cough 
and Cold, all Psychiatric or Psychosomatic Disorders, Pyrexia of unknown origin for 
less than 10 days, Tonsillitis and Upper Respiratory Tract infection including Laryngitis 
and Pharyngitis, Arthritis, Gout and Rheumatism. 
11. Organ Donor Expenses In patient hospitalization expenses incurred for organ 
transplantation from the Donor to the Recipient Insured Person are payable provided 
the claim for transplantation is payable. In addition, the expenses incurred by the 
Donor, (if any) for the complications that necessitate a Redo Surgery / ICU admission 
will be covered.
The coverage limit under this beneﬁt is over and above the Limit of Coverage and upto 
the Sum Insured. This additional Sum Insured can be utilized by the Donor and 
not by the Insured.
12. Health Checkup Assure: Expenses incurred towards cost of health check-up up to 
the limits mentioned in the table given below for each policy year (irrespective of claim).
Note: Payment of any claim under this beneﬁt shall not be construed as a waiver of 
Company's right to repudiate any claim on grounds of non disclosure of material fact 
or pre-existing disease, for hospitalization expenses under hospitalization provisions 
of the policy contract.
13. Home care treatment: Payable up to 10% of the sum insured subject to maximum of 
Rs.5 lakhs in a policy year, for treatment availed by the Insured Person at home, only 
for the speciﬁed conditions mentioned below, which in normal course would require 
care and treatment at a hospital but is actually taken at home provided that:
a) The Medical practitioner advises the Insured person to undergo treatment at home
b) There is a continuous active line of treatment with monitoring of the health status by 
a medical practitioner for each day through the duration of the home care treatment
c) Daily monitoring chart including records of treatment administered duly signed 
by the treating doctor is maintained
d) Insured can avail ‘'Home Care Treatment'' service on cashless / reimbursement 
basis, if availed from the list of our Network service providers given in our website 
''www.starhealth.in''
List of Conditions covered under Home care treatment
1. Fever and Infectious diseases which can be managed as Inpatient
2. Uncomplicated Urinary tract infections but needing Parenteral Antibiotics
3. Asthma and COPD -Mild Exacerbations needing Home Nebulization
4. Acute Gastritis/Gastroenteritis
5. I.V. Chemotherapy [Where advised by the doctor]
6. Palliative Cancer care requiring medical assistance
7. Acute Vertigo
8. Diabetic foot and Cellulitis
9. IVDP [Cervical and Lumbar disc diseases]
10. Major Surgeries/Arthroplasties needing IV Antibiotics Post Discharge 
11. Care for Brain and Spinal Injury Cases Post Discharge
12. Post CVA Care at Home after Discharge
13. Chronic Severe Refractory Asthma (by Advanced Medicine)
14. Delivery Expenses: Expenses for a Delivery including Delivery by Caesarean 
section (including pre-natal and postnatal expenses) up-to 10% of the Sum Insured is 
payable, subject to the following:-
i. Beneﬁt under this section is subject to a waiting period of 24 months from the 
date of ﬁrst commencement of Star Health Assure Insurance policy and its 
continuous renewal thereof with the Company.
a. There is no waiting period for subsequent deliveries
Sum Insured in lakhs (Rs.) 5 / 10 / 15 / 20 / 25 / 50 75 / 100 / 200
Room Rent Criteria
Up to 1% of Sum Insured 
or upto Rs.20,000/- per 
day whichever is less
No limit on Room Rent
(Any room)
Sum Insured (Rs.)
Limit Upto (Rs.)
Individual Floater
5,00,000 1,500 2,500
10,00,000 2,000 5,000
15,00,000 4,000 8,000
20,00,000 5,000 10,000
25,00,000 5,000 10,000
50,00,000 5,000 10,000
75,00,000 8,000 15,000
1,00,00,000 8,000 15,000
2,00,00,000 8,000 15,000

--- PAGE 7 ---

7 of 20Unique Identiﬁcation No.: SHAHLIP23017V012223Star Health Assure Insurance Policy POL / SHA / V.1 / 2022
ii. This cover is available only when 
a. Both self and spouse are covered under this policy for a continuous period 
of 24 months under Individual or ﬂoater sum insured.
iii. Pre-hospitalisation and Post Hospitalization expenses are not applicable for this 
section.
15. In Utero Fetal Surgery/Intervention: The Company will pay the expenses incurred 
for In Utero Fetal Surgeries and Procedures mentioned below after the waiting period 
of 24 months from the date of inception of this policy: 
Types of in utero-surgeries covered
1) Open Fetal Surgery
2) Fetendo Fetal Surgery
3) Fetal Image-Guided Surgery (FIGS-IT)
4) EXIT procedure
Types of in utero-surgeries/procedures covered
List of procedures covered under in utero-surgeries: 
· Amniotic band syndrome
· Bronchopulmonary sequestration of the lung
· Congenital cystic adenomatoid malformation (CCAM) of the lung
· Congenital diaphragmatic hernia (CDH)
· Congenital high airway obstruction syndrome (CHAOS)
· Fetalanemia
· Lower urinary tract obstruction (LUTO)
· Mediastinalteratoma
· Neck mass
· Sacrococcygealteratoma (SCT)
· Spina biﬁda (myelomeningocele)
· Twin reversed arterial perfusion (TRAP) sequence
· Twin-twin transfusion syndrome (TTTS)
16. Assisted Reproduction Treatment: The Company will reimburse medical expenses 
incurred on Assisted Reproduction Treatment as per the table mentioned below, for 
sub-fertility subject to:
a) A waiting period of 24 months from the date of ﬁrst inception of this policy with the 
Company for the insured person.
b) Company will pay for one Assisted Reproduction Treatment cycle in a policy year. 
c) For the purpose of claiming under this beneﬁt, in-patient treatment is not mandatory.
Special Exclusions
The Company shall not be liable to make any payments under this policy in 
respect of any expenses what so ever incurred by the insured person in 
connection with or in respect of:
1. Pre and Post treatment expenses
2. Sub-fertility services that are deemed to be unproven, experimental or 
investigational 
3. Services not in accordance with standards of good medical practice and not 
uniformly recognized and professionally endorsed by the general medical 
community at the time it is to be provided.
4. Reversal of voluntary sterilization
5. Treatment undergone for second or subsequent pregnancies except where the 
child from the ﬁrst delivery/ previous deliveries is/are not alive at the time of 
treatment
6. Payment for services rendered to a surrogate
7. Costs associated with cryopreservation and storage of sperm, eggs and embryos
8. Selective termination of an embryo. 
9. Services done at unrecognized centre
10. Surgery / procedures that enhances fertility like Tubal Occlusion, Bariatric 
Surgery, Diagnostic Laparoscopy with Ovarian Drilling and such other similar 
surgery / procedures
17. Hospitalization expenses for treatment of New Born Baby: Expenses up-to the 
limit mentioned in the below given table incurred in a hospital/ nursing home on 
treatment of the New born for any disease, illness (including any congenital disorders) 
or accidental injuries are payable from Day 1 of its birth till the expiry date of the policy.
Special Conditions applicable for this section
1. This cover is available only If Delivery Expenses Claim is paid under this policy or 
if Mother is covered under this policy for a continuous period of 12 months 
without break
2. Intimation about the birth of the New Born should be given to the company and 
the coverage will be given to the New Born from the ﬁrst day of its birth.
3. Exclusion no.1 (Code-Excl 01), Exclusion no.2 (Code-Excl 02), Exclusion no.3 
(Code-Excl 03) and Exclusion no.20 (Code-Excl 20) as stated under this policy 
shall not apply for the New Born baby cover.
4. In the subsequent years, the New Born Baby will be covered up to the Sum 
Insured (without any underwriting and the entry age criteria), if the policy holder 
opts the coverage for New Born and pays the premium.
5. Enhancement of sum insured is subject to underwriters approval
18. Treatment for Chronic Severe Refractory Asthma: In-patient hospitalization / Day 
Care treatment / Home Care Treatment/ Out-patient treatment expenses incurred for 
treatment of Chronic Severe Refractory Asthma by Advanced Medicine, if 
recommended by the treating Medical practitioner (Pulmonologist) is payable up to 
10% of sum insured not exceeding Rs.5 lakhs per policy period.
19. Compassionate travel: In the event of the insured person being hospitalized for a life 
threatening emergency at a place away from his usual place of residence as recorded 
in the policy, the Company will reimburse the transportation expenses by air incurred 
upto Rs.10,000/- for one immediate family member(other than the travel companion) 
for travel towards the place where hospital is located, provided the claim for 
hospitalization is admissible under the policy.
20. Repatriation of Mortal Remains Following an admissible claim for hospitalization 
under the policy, the Company shall reimburse up to Rs.15,000/- in a policy year 
towards the cost of repatriation of mortal remains of the insured person (including the 
cost of embalming and cofﬁn charges) to the residence of the Insured as recorded in 
the policy.
21. Treatment in Valuable service providers network: In the event of hospitalization in 
valuable service provider network, an amount calculated at 1% of Sum Insured 
subject to a maximum of Rs.5,000/- per policy period is payable as lump sum.
Note
1. This beneﬁt is payable only if there is an admissible claim for hospitalization 
under the policy.
2. This beneﬁt shall be paid if a hospital is a part of the Valuable service provider 
network list as on date of admission
3. Payment under this beneﬁt does not form part of the sum insured 
4. The Company shall not be responsible for the quality of the treatment in the 
Valuable Service Providers Network.
5. FOR THE LIST OF VALUABLE SERVICE PROVIDERS NETWORK PLEASE 
VISIT OUR COMPANY WEBSITE www.starhealth.in
22. Shared accommodation: If the Insured person occupies, a shared accommodation 
during in-patient hospitalization, then amount of Rs.1,000/- per day will be payable for 
each continuous and completed period of 24 hours of stay in such shared 
accommodation.
Note
i) This beneﬁt is payable only if there is an admissible claim for hospitalization  
under the policy
TYPE OF INTERVENTION DESCRIPTION SURGERIES
OPEN SURGERY Hysterotomy
CPAM - Lobectomy
SCT - Resection
MMC - Repair
Cervical Teratoma - 
Resection EXIT
Tracheal occlusion
Neck tumors
CDH (EXIT to ECMO)
FETENDO Fetoscopic Surgery
Balloon Occlusion of 
Trachea (for CDH)
Laser Ablation of Vessels 
(for TTTS)
Cord Ligation/Division
Cystoscopic Ablation Valves 
(Urinary Obstruction)
Amniotic Bands Release
FIGS Fetal Image Guided 
Surgery
Amnioreduction/Infusion
Fetal Blood Sampling
RFA Anomalous Twins
Vesico/Pleuro Amniotic 
Shunts
Balloon Dilation Aortic 
Stenosis
EXIT procedure Planned Specialized 
Delivery
CHAOS
Removal of the CDH 
Tracheal Occlusion Balloon
Pulmonary Sequestration
CCAM
Sum Insured (Rs.) in lakhs Limit of Liability in a 
policy year (Rs.)
5,00,000/- 1,00,000
10,00,000/-, 15,00,000/-, 20,00,000/-, 25,00,000/- 2,00,000
50,00,000/-, 75,00,000/-, 1,00,00,000/-, 2,00,00,000/- 4,00,000
Sum Insured in Lakhs (Rs.) Limit Per Policy 
Period (Rs.)
5,00,000/-, 10,00,000/-, 15,00,000/-, 20,00,000/-, 25,00,000/- 2,00,000
50,00,000/-, 75,00,000/-, 1,00,00,000/-, 2,00,00,000/- 4,00,000

--- PAGE 8 ---

8 of 20Unique Identiﬁcation No.: SHAHLIP23017V012223Star Health Assure Insurance Policy POL / SHA / V.1 / 2022
ii) This beneﬁt will not be applicable where the sanction is on package rates
iii) Insured stay in Intensive Care Unit or High Dependency Units / wards will not be 
counted for this purpose
23. AYUSH Treatment: Medical expenses for Inpatient Hospitalization incurred on 
treatment under Ayurveda, Unani, Sidha and Homeopathy systems of medicines in a 
AYUSH Hospital  is payable up to the sum insured.
Note
i. Yoga and Naturopathy systems of treatments are excluded from the scope of 
coverage under AYUSH treatment
24. Second Medical Opinion: The Insured Person can obtain a Second Medical Opinion 
from a Doctor in the Company's network of Medical Practitioners. All the medical 
records provided by the Insured Person will be submitted to the Doctor chosen by 
him/her online and the medical opinion will be made available directly to the Insured 
by the Doctor.  To utilize this beneﬁt, all medical records should be forwarded to the 
mail-id e_medicalopinion@starhealth.in or through Post/Courier.
Special Conditions:-
· This should be speciﬁcally requested for by the Insured Person
· This opinion is given based only on the medical records submitted without 
examining the patient,
· The second opinion should be only for medical reasons and not for medico-legal 
purposes.
· Any liability due to any errors or omission or consequences of any action taken in 
reliance of the second opinion provided by the Medical Practitioner is outside the 
scope of this policy.
· Utilizing this facility alone will not amount to making a claim
Note: Medical Records / Documents submitted for utilizing this facility will not 
prejudice the Company's right to reject a claim in terms of policy.
25. Coverage for Modern Treatment: The following procedures will be covered 
(wherever medically indicated)either as in patient or as part of day care treatment in a 
hospital upto sum insured (including Pre and Post hospitalization expenses) during 
the policy period;
a) Uterine artery Embolization and HIFU
b) Balloon Sinuplasty
c) Deep Brain Stimulation
d) Oral Chemotherapy
e) Immunotherapy- Monoclonal Antibody to be given as injection
f) Intra Vitreal injections
g) Robotic surgeries
h) Stereotactic radio surgeries
i) BronchicalThermoplasty
j) Vaporisation of the prostate (Green laser treatment or holmium laser treatment)
k) IONM-(Intra Operative Neuro Monitoring)
l) Stem cell therapy: Hematopoietic stem cells for bone marrow transplant for 
haematological conditions
26. Cumulative Bonus: The insured person will be eligible for Cumulative bonus 
calculated at 25% of sum insured for each claim free year and maximum up to 100% of 
the sum insured 
Special Conditions
1. The Cumulative bonus will be calculated on the expiring Sum Insured
2. If the insured opts to reduce the Sum Insured at the subsequent renewal, the limit 
of indemnity by way of such Cumulative bonus shall not exceed such reduced 
sum insured 
3. In the event of a claim resulting in; 
a. Partial utilization of Sum Insured, such cumulative bonus so granted will not 
be reduced 
b. Full utilization of Sum Insured and nil utilization of cumulative bonus 
accrued, such cumulative bonus so granted will not be reduced 
c. Full utilization of Sum Insured and partial utilization of cumulative bonus 
accrued, the cumulative bonus granted on renewal will be the balance 
cumulative bonus available and will be reduced at the same rate at which it 
has accrued 
d. Full utilization of Sum Insured and full utilization of cumulative bonus 
accrued, the cumulative bonus on renewal will be “nil”
27. Automatic Restoration of Sum Insured: The policy provides automatic restoration 
of sum insured subject to the following condition;
· Sum Insured will be restored unlimited number of times and maximum up to 
100% each time, which can be utilized for a subsequent hospitalization.
· The restoration will trigger immediately upon partial/ full utilization of the sum 
insured, which can be utilized for a subsequent hospitalization.
· On partial utilization of the Sum Insured, it will be restored up to extent of 
utilization.
· On full utilization of the Sum Insured, it will be restored to 100%.
· The Restored Sum Insured can be used for all claims including for modern 
treatment, but for a subsequent hospitalization.
· The maximum payable amount for a single claim under restoration beneﬁt shall 
not be more than the Sum Insured.
Unlimited Restoration – illustration
If there are 2 insured members with Sum Insured of 10 Lacs each, lets understand 
how restoration beneﬁt will apply to each under different circumstances.
28. Rehabilitation and Pain Management: The company will pay the medical expenses 
for Rehabilitation and Pain Management up to the sub-limit (or) maximum up to 20% 
of the sum insured whichever is less, per policy year. 
Rehabilitation: The company will pay the expenses for rehabilitation, if availed at 
authorized centres as an In-patient/Out-patient, and if there is an admissible claim for 
In-patient hospitalization for an injury, disease or illness speciﬁed below. 
1. Poly Trauma 
2. Head injury  
3. Diseases of the spine
4. Stroke 
Pain Management treatment
S.No.
Name of the covered pain management 
treatment
Sub-limits (Per Policy year) 
(Rs.)
Sum Insured (Rs in Lac) 5 / 10 / 15 / 20 25 & Above
1
Lumbar and cervical medial branch block with 
RF ablation for lumbar and cervical facet joint 
arthritis
65,000/- 75,000/-
2 Caudal epidural injection for Discogenic pain 40,000/- 50,000/-
3 Lumbar and cervical selective nerve root 
block for Lumbar and Cervical radicular pain 50,000/- 60,000/-
4 Caudal Neuroplasty for Failed back spine 
surgery 85,000/- 1,00,000/-
5 Stellate ganglion ablation for upper limb CRPS 65,000/- 75,000/-
6
Occipital nerve Pulsed RF lesioning for 
Migraines, Cluster headache and cervicogenic 
headaches
65,000/- 75,000/-
7
Lumbar sympathetic chain RF ablation for 
lower limb CRPS,diabetic periphery painful 
neuropathy and Ischaemic limb pain
65,000/- 75,000/-
8 Gasserian ganglion ablation for Trigeminal 
neuralgia 65,000/- 75,000/-
9 Intercostal nerve Ablation for post thoracotomy 
pain and Thoracic malignancy pain 65,000/- 75,000/-
10 Coeliac plexus ablation for upper gastrointestinal 
malignancies pain 65,000/- 75,000/-
 Insured 1 Insured 2
Sum Insured Rs.10,00,000 Rs.10,00,000
No Claim Bonus (NCB) 0 Rs.5,00,000
Total Available amount Rs.10,00,000
Rs.15,00,000
(Sum Insured 10 Lac + 
NCB 5 Lac)
1st Claim
1st Claim Rs.5,00,000 Rs.5,00,000
Claim paid amount Rs.5,00,000 Rs.5,00,000
Will the restoration
kick in?
Yes, Why - Since there 
is partial utilization of 
Sum Insured.
Rs.5,00,000
(Restored
Sum Insured)
Rs.5,00,000
(Restored
Sum Insured)
Available amount for next claim
Rs.10,00,000
(Restored SI 5Lac + 
Balance SI 5Lac)
Rs.15,00,000
(Restored SI 5Lac + 
Balance SI 5Lac+
NCB 5L)
2nd Claim
2nd Claim (For Same / 
different illness) Rs.15,00,000 Rs.15,00,000
Claim paid amount Rs.10,00,000 Rs.15,00,000
Will the restoration
kick in?
Yes, Why - Since there 
is full utilization of Sum 
Insured.
Rs.10,00,000
(Restored
Sum Insured)
Rs.10,00,000
(Restored
Sum Insured)
Available amount for next claim
Rs.10,00,000
(SI is Restored
up to 100%)
Rs.10,00,000
(SI is Restored
up to 100%)
3nd Claim
3rd Claim
(For Same /
different illness)
Rs.11,00,000 Rs.11,00,000
Claim paid amount Rs.10,00,000 Rs.10,00,000
Will the restoration
kick in?
Yes, Why - Since there 
is full utilization of Sum 
Insured.
Rs.10,00,000
(Restored
Sum Insured)
Rs.10,00,000
(Restored
Sum Insured)

--- PAGE 9 ---

9 of 20Unique Identiﬁcation No.: SHAHLIP23017V012223Star Health Assure Insurance Policy POL / SHA / V.1 / 2022
29. Star Wellness Program: This program intends to promote, incentivize and to reward 
the Insured Persons' healthy life style through various wellness activities. The 
wellness activities as mentioned below are designed to help the Insured person to 
earn wellness reward points which will be tracked and monitored by the Company. 
The wellness points earned by the Insured Person(s) under the wellness program, 
can be utilized to get discount in premium.
This Wellness Program is enabled and administered online through Star Wellness 
Platform through Star Health customer mobile app “Star Power” and through “Star 
Health Customer Portal (digital platform)”. 
Note: The Wellness Activities mentioned in the table below (from Serial Number 1 to 5) 
are applicable for the Insured person(s) aged 18 years and above only.
The following table shows the discount on premium available under the Wellness 
Program;
*In case of ﬂoater policy the weightage is given as per the following table
*Please refer the Illustrations to understand the calculation of discount in premium, 
weightage and the calculation.
The wellness services and activities are categorized as below
1. Manage and Track Health
a) Completion of Health Risk Assessment (HRA): The Health Risk 
Assessment (HRA) questionnaire is an online tool for evaluation of health 
and quality of life of the Insured. It helps the Insured to introspect his/ her 
personal lifestyle. The Insured can log into his/her account on the website 
www.starhealth.in and complete the HRA questionnaire. The Insured can 
undertake this once per policy year. 
On Completion of online HRA questionnaire, the Insured earns 50 wellness 
points.
Note: To get the wellness points mentioned under HRA, the Insured has to 
complete the entire HRA within one month from the time he/she started HRA 
Activity.
b) Preventive Risk Assessment: The Insured can also earn wellness points 
by undergoing diagnostic / preventive tests during the policy year. These 
tests should include the four mandatory tests mentioned below. Insured can 
take these tests at any diagnostic centre at Insured's own expenses. 
- If all the results of the submitted test reports are within the normal 
range, Insured earns 200 wellness points.
- If the result of any one test is not within the normal range as speciﬁed in 
the lab report, Insured earns 150 wellness points.
- If two or more test results are not within the normal range, Insured 
earns 100 wellness points only. 
Note: These tests reports should be submitted together and within 30 days 
from the date of undergoing such Health Check-Up.
2. Afﬁnity towards wellness: Insured earns wellness points for undertaking any of 
the ﬁtness and health related activities as given below
3. Stay Active: Insured earns wellness points on achieving the step count target on 
star mobile application as mentioned below
List of mandatory tests under Preventive Risk Assessment
1. Complete Haemogram Test
2. Blood Sugar (Fasting Blood Sugar (FBS) + Postprandial (PP) [or] HbA1c)
3. Lipid proﬁle (Total cholesterol, HDL, LDL, Triglycerides, Total Cholesterol / HDL 
Cholesterol Ratio)
4. Serum Creatinine
S.No.
Name of the covered pain management 
treatment
Sub-limits (Per Policy year) 
(Rs.)
Sum Insured (Rs in Lac) 5 / 10 / 15 / 20 25 & Above
11 Superior hypogastric plexus ablation for 
lower Gastro intestinal malignancies pain 65,000/- 75,000/-
12 Ganglion impar ablation for perineal cancer 
pain and coccydynia 65,000/- 75,000/-
13 Cooled RF ablation of genicular nerve for 
grade 1 and 2 osteoarthritis knee and hip 1,00,000/- 1,25,000/-
14 Suprascapular nerve RF ablation for rotator 
cuff partial tear and peri arthritis shoulder pain 65,000/- 75,000/-
Important Note:
(i) Rehabilitation and/or Pain management treatment can be taken only at the 
Authorized centres mentioned in the website – www.starhealth.in
Wellness Points Earned Discount in Premium
200 to 350 4%
351 to 600 10%
601 to 750 14%
751 to 1000 20%
Family Size Weightage
Self, Spouse 1:1
Self, Spouse and Dependent Children
(up to 17 years) 1:1:0:0:0
Self, Spouse and Dependent Children 
(18 years and above) 2:2:1:1:1
Note: In case of two year policy, total number of wellness points earned in two year 
period will be divided by two.
Sr.No. Activity
Maximum number 
of Wellness Points 
that can be earned 
under each activity 
in a policy year
1.
Manage and Track Health
a) Online Health Risk Assessment (HRA) 50
b) Preventive Risk Assessment 200
2.
Afﬁnity to Wellness
a) Participating in Walkathon, Marathon, Cyclothon 
and similar activities 100
b) Membership in a health club (for 1 year or more) 100
3. Stay Active - If the Insured member achieves the step 
count target on mobile app 200
4.
a) Weight Management Program (for the Insured 
who is Overweight / Obese) 100  
b) Sharing Insured Fitness Success Story through 
adoption of Star Wellness Program (for the Insured 
who is not Overweight / Obese)
50
5.
a) Chronic Condition Management Program (for the 
Insured who is suffering from Chronic Condition/s - 
Diabetes, Hypertension, Cardiovascular Disease 
or Asthma)
250
b) On Completion of De-Stress & Mind Body Healing 
Program (for the Insured who is not suffering from 
Chronic Condition/s - Diabetes, Hypertension, 
Cardiovascular Disease or Asthma)
125
Sr.No. Activity
Maximum number 
of Wellness Points 
that can be earned 
under each activity 
in a policy year
Additional Wellness Services
6. Star Tele-health services
7. Medical Concierge Services
8. Digital Health Vault
9. Wellness Content
10. Post-Operative Care
11. Discounts from Network Providers
List of Fitness Initiatives and Wellness points
Initiative Wellness 
Points
a.
Participating in Walkathon, Marathon, Cyclothon and similar activities
100- On submission of BIB Number along with the details of the entry 
ticket taken to participate in the event. 
b.
Membership in a health club (for 1 year or more) - In a Gym / Yoga 
Centre / Zumba Classes / Aerobic Exercise/ Sports Club/ Pilates 
Classes/ Swimming / Tai Chi/ Martial Arts / Gymnastics/ Dance Classes
100
Note: In case if Insured is not a member of any health club, he/she should join into club 
within 3 months from the date of the policy risk commencement date. Insured person 
should submit the health club membership.
Average number of steps per day in a policy year Wellness 
Points
· If the average number of steps per day in a policy year are between - 
5000 and 7999 100
· If the average number of steps per day in a policy year are between - 
8000 and 9999 150
· If the average number of steps per day in a policy year are - 10000 and 
above 200
Note
· First month and last month in each policy year will not be taken into consideration for 
calculation of average number of steps per day under Stay Active. 
· The mobile app must be downloaded within 30 days of the policy risk start date to 
avail this beneﬁt.
· The average step count completed by an Insured member would be tracked on star 
wellness mobile application.

--- PAGE 10 ---

10 of 20Unique Identiﬁcation No.: SHAHLIP23017V012223Star Health Assure Insurance Policy POL / SHA / V.1 / 2022
4. Weight Management Program
a) This Program will help the Insured persons with Over Weight and Obesity to 
manage their Body Mass Index (BMI) through the empanelled wellness 
experts who will guide the Insured in losing excess weight and maintain 
their BMI. 
- On acceptance of the Weight Management Program, Insured earns 
50 wellness points.
- An additional 50 wellness points will be awarded in case if the results 
are achieved and maintained as mentioned below
b) Incase if the Insured is not Overweight / Obese, the Insured can submit 
his/her Fitness Success Story through adoption of Star Wellness Activities 
with us. On submission of the Fitness Success Story through adoption of 
Star Wellness Activities, Insured earns 50 wellness points. 
5. Chronic Condition Management Program
a) This Program will help the Insured suffering from Diabetes, Hypertension, 
Cardiovascular Disease or Asthma to track their health through the 
empanelled wellness experts who will guide the insured in maintaining/ 
improving the health condition. 
- On acceptance of the Chronic Condition Management Program, 
Insured earns 100 wellness points.
- The Insured has to submit the test result values for every 3 months 
maximum up to 3 times in a policy year.
- If the test result values are within +/- 10% range of the values given 
below, for at least 2 times in a policy year, an additional 150 wellness 
points will be awarded.
- These tests reports to be submitted within 1 month from the date of 
undergoing the Health Check-Up
b) In case if the Insured is not suffering from Chronic Condition/s (Diabetes, 
Hypertension, Cardiovascular Disease or Asthma) he/she can opt for “De-
Stress & Mind Body Healing Program”. This program helps the Insured to 
reduce stress caused due to internal (self-generated) & external factors and 
increases the ability to handle stress.
- On acceptance of De-stress & Mind Body Healing Program Insured 
earns 50 wellness points.
- On completion of De-stress & Mind Body Healing Program Insured 
earns an additional 75 wellness points.
Note: This is a 10 weeks program which insured needs to complete without 
any break. 
6. Star Tele-health Services: Insured can consult with the In-house Medical 
Practitioners between 8.00 am and 10.00 pm, who can help the Insured by 
providing Medical advice, Second Medical Opinion and consultation on Diet & 
Nutrition through Voice Call, Video Call & Online Chat provided in our Mobile App 
“Talk to Star”and for Consultation by Telephone (between 8.00 am to 10.00 pm) 
Insured can call to the phone number - 7676 905 905
7. Medical Concierge Services: The Insured can also contact Star Health to avail 
the following services - Emergency assistance information such as nearest 
ambulance / hospital / blood bank etc.
8. Digital Health Vault: A secured Personal Health records system for Insured to 
store/access and share health data with trusted recipients. Using this portal, 
Insured can store their health documents (prescriptions, lab reports, discharge 
summaries etc.), track health data add family members.
9. Wellness Content: The wellness portal provides rich collection of health articles, 
blogs, tips and other health and wellness content. The contents have been 
written by experts drawn from various ﬁelds. Insured will beneﬁt from having one 
single and reliable source for learning about various health aspects and 
incorporating positive health changes.
10. Post Operative Care: It is done through follow up phone calls (primarily for 
surgical cases) for resolving their medical queries.
11. Discounts from Network Providers: The Insured can avail discounts on the 
services offered by our network providers which will be displayed in our website.
Terms and conditions under wellness activity
· Any information provided by the Insured in this regard shall be kept 
conﬁdential.
· There will not be any cash redemption against the wellness reward points.
· Insured should notify and submit relevant documents, reports, receipts etc 
for various wellness activities within 1 month of undertaking such 
activity/test.
· For services that are provided through empanelled service provider, Star 
Health is only acting as a facilitator; hence would not be liable for any 
incremental costs or the services.
· All medical services are being provided by empanelled health care service 
provider. We ensure full due diligence before empanelment. However 
Insured should consult his/her doctor before availing/taking the medical 
advices/services. The decision to utilize these advices/services is solely at 
Insured person's discretion.
· We reserve the right to remove the wellness reward points if found to be 
achieved in unfair manner.
· Star Health, its group entities, or afﬁliates, their respective directors, 
ofﬁcers, employees, agents, vendors, are not responsible or liable for, any 
actions, claims, demands, losses, damages, costs, charges and expenses 
which a Member claims to have suffered, sustained or incurred, by way of 
and / or on account of the Wellness Program.
· Services offered are subject to guidelines issued by IRDAI from time to time.
30. Co-payment: This policy is subject to co-payment of 10% of each and every claim 
amount for fresh as well as renewal policies for insured person whose age at the time 
of entry is 61 years and above.
Sr.No. Name of the Ailment Values to be 
submitted
Criteria to get the 
Wellness points
1. Obesity
(If BMI is above 29)
Height & Weight
(to calculate BMI)
Achieving and maintaining 
the BMI between 18 and 29 
2.
Overweight
(If BMI is between
25 and 29)
Height & Weight
(to calculate BMI)
Reducing BMI by two points 
and maintaining the same 
BMI in the policy year
- Values (for BMI) shall be submitted for every 2 months (up to 5 times in each policy 
year)
Sr.No. Name of the Ailment Test to be 
submitted
Values Criteria to 
get the additional 
Wellness points
1.
Diabetes (Insured can submit 
either HbA1c test value
(or)
Fasting Blood Sugar (FBS) 
Range and Postprandial test 
value) 
HbA1c £ 6.5
Fasting Blood Sugar 
(FBS) Range and 
Postprandial test 
value
100 to 125 mg/dl
below 160 mg/dl
2. Hypertension Measured with - BP
apparatus
Systolic Range - 
110 to 140 mmHg
Diastolic Range - 
70 to 90 mmHg
3. Cardiovascular Disease
LDL Cholesterol and
Total Cholesterol / 
HDL Cholesterol 
Ratio 
100 to 159 mg/dl 
£ 4.0
4. Asthma PFT (Pulmonary 
Function Test)
FEV1 (PFC) is 75%  
or more
FEV1/ FVC is 70% 
or more
ILLUSTRATION OF BENEFITS
Lets look how the Insured can avail discount on premium through the
“Star Wellness Program”
Scenario: A 50 year old Individual Suresh and his wife Lakshmi along with their two 
dependent children (aged below 18 yrs) buy a Star Health Assure Insurance Policy 
with Sum Insured 20 Lacs, let's understand how they can earn Wellness Points under 
the Floater Policy. Suresh has declared that he is suffering from Diabetes & 
Hypertension. Suresh has declared his Body Mass Index (BMI) as 30 & Lakshmi has 
declared her BMI as 25
Suresh and Lakshmi enrolled under the Star wellness program and completed the 
following wellness activities.
Sr. 
No
Name of the wellness activity taken up 
during the policy year
Wellness 
Points Earned 
by Suresh
Wellness 
Points Earned 
by Lakshmi
1. Completed Online Health Risk 
Assessment (HRA) 50 50
2. Submitted Health Check-Up Report 200 200
3. Participation in Marathon 100 0
4. Attended to Gym 100 100
5. Achieved 10,000 average number of steps 
per day during the policy year 200 200
6.
Suresh accepted the Weight management 
program and reached 27 BMI
Lakshmi accepted the Weight 
management program and reached 23 BMI 
100 100
7.
Suresh Managed Diabetes & Hypertension 
through Chronic Condition Management 
Program;
Lakshmi has completed De-stress & Mind 
Body Healing Program
250 125
Total Number of Wellness Points earned 1000 775
No of wellness points based upon 
weightage - 1:1
500
(1000X1/2)
388
(775X1/2)
Total Number of Wellness Points earned by Suresh and Lakshmi = 888 (500+388)
Based on the no of Wellness Points earned, Suresh & Lakshmi are eligible to get 20% 
discount on renewal premium

--- PAGE 11 ---

11 of 20Unique Identiﬁcation No.: SHAHLIP23017V012223Star Health Assure Insurance Policy POL / SHA / V.1 / 2022
31. Optional Cover to choose deductible: If the insured person chooses any of the 
following deductible, the Company will provide a discount on premium as per the table 
given below;
Note: This deductible is applicable for every policy year (on Aggregate basis)
C. EXCLUSIONS                                                                                              
The Company shall not be liable to make any payments under this policy in respect of any 
expenses what so ever incurred by the insured person in connection with or in respect of;
STANDARD EXCLUSIONS
1. Pre-Existing Diseases - Code Excl 01
A. Applicable for 3 year policy term: Expenses related to the treatment of a 
pre-existing Disease (PED) and its direct complications shall be excluded until 
the expiry of 30 months of continuous coverage after the date of inception of the 
ﬁrst policy with insurer.
If the insured chooses for 1 year or 2 year policy term
Applicable for 1 year and 2 year policy term: Expenses related to the 
treatment of a pre-existing Disease (PED) and its direct complications shall be 
excluded until the expiry of 36 months of continuous coverage after the date of 
inception of the ﬁrst policy with insurer
B. In case of enhancement of sum insured the exclusion shall apply afresh to the 
extent of sum insured increase.
C. If the Insured Person is continuously covered without any break as deﬁned under 
the portability norms of the extant IRDAI (Health Insurance) Regulations, then 
waiting period for the same would be reduced to the extent of prior coverage.
D. Applicable for 3 year policy term: Coverage under the policy after the expiry of 
30 months for any pre-existing disease is subject to the same being declared at 
the time of application and accepted by Insurer.
Applicable for 1 year and 2 year policy term: Coverage under the policy after 
the expiry of 36 months for any pre-existing disease is subject to the same being 
declared at the time of application and accepted by Insurer.
2. Speciﬁed disease/procedure waiting period - Code Excl 02
A. Expenses related to the treatment of the listed Conditions, surgeries/treatments 
shall be excluded until the expiry of 24 months of continuous coverage after the 
date of inception of the ﬁrst policy with us. This exclusion shall not be applicable 
for claims arising due to an accident. 
B. In case of enhancement of sum insured the exclusion shall apply afresh to the 
extent of sum insured increase.
C. If any of the speciﬁed disease/procedure falls under the waiting period speciﬁed 
for pre-existing diseases, then the longer of the two waiting periods shall apply.
D. The waiting period for listed conditions shall apply even if contracted after the 
policy or declared and accepted without a speciﬁc exclusion.
E. If the Insured Person is continuously covered without any break as deﬁned under 
the applicable norms on portability stipulated by IRDAI, then waiting period for 
the same would be reduced to the extent of prior coverage.
F. List of speciﬁc diseases/procedures 
1. Treatment of Cataract and diseases of the anterior and posterior chamber 
of the Eye, Diseases of ENT, Diseases related to Thyroid, Benign diseases 
of the breast.
2. Subcutaneous Benign Lumps, Sebaceous cyst, Dermoid cyst, Mucous cyst 
lip / cheek, Carpal Tunnel Syndrome, Trigger Finger, Lipoma, 
Neuroﬁbroma, Fibroadenoma, Ganglion and similar pathology
3. All treatments (Conservative, Operative treatment) and all types of 
intervention for Diseases related to Tendon, Ligament, Fascia, Bones and 
Joint Including Arthroscopy and Arthroplasty / Joint Replacement [other 
than caused by accident].
4. All types of treatment for Degenerative disc and Vertebral diseases 
including Replacement of bones and joints and Degenerative diseases of 
the Musculo-skeletal system, Prolapse of Intervertebral Disc (other than 
caused by accident),
5. All treatments (conservative, interventional, laparoscopic and open) related 
to Hepato-pancreato-biliary diseases including Gall bladder and Pancreatic 
calculi. All types of management for Kidney calculi and Genitourinary tract 
calculi.
6. All types of Hernia,
7. DesmoidTumor, Umbilical Granuloma, Umbilical Sinus, Umbilical Fistula,
8. All treatments (conservative, interventional, laparoscopic and open) related 
to all Diseases of Cervix, Uterus, Fallopian tubes, Ovaries, Uterine 
Bleeding, Pelvic Inﬂammatory Diseases
9. All Diseases of Prostate, Stricture Urethra, all Obstructive Uropathies,
10. Benign Tumours of Epididymis, Spermatocele, Varicocele, Hydrocele,
11. Fistula, Fissure in Ano, Hemorrhoids, Pilonidal Sinus and Fistula, Rectal 
Prolapse, Stress Incontinence
Illustration of deductible
If an Insured with 10 Lac Sum Insured opted for an aggregate deductible of Rs.50,000 in 
a year, lets understand how this deductible will be applied
First Policy Year
Sum Insured Rs. 10,00,000/-
(Opted Deductible is Rs. 50,000/- )
What does opting a 
deductible mean
Coverage will start once the Insured incurs single / multiple 
claims that add up to the deductible amount in a policy year
1st Claim
(Injury due to Accident)
Rs. 50,000/-
(Not paid by us as it is within Deductible limit)
Balance Sum Insured Rs. 10,00,000/-
2nd Claim
(Dengue fever)
Rs. 65,000/-
(Payable as the deductible limit of Rs. 50,000/- is already 
exhausted in the policy year)
Balance Sum Insured Rs. 9,35,000/-
3rd Claim
(Bacterial 
Gastroenteritis)
Rs. 55,000/-
(Payable as the deductible limit of Rs. 50,000/- is already 
exhausted in the policy year)
Balance Sum Insured Rs. 8,80,000/-
List of Beneﬁts which are part of sum insured and in addition to sum insured
SI.No. Coverage Forming Part of Sum Insured 
/ In addition to Sum Insured
1 Room Rent , Boarding, Nursing 
Expenses, Surgeon, Anesthetist, Medical 
Practitioner, Consultants, Specialist Fees, 
Anesthesia, Blood, Oxygen, Operation 
theatre charges, ICU charges, Surgical 
appliances, Medicines and Drugs, 
Diagnostic materials and X-ray, 
Diagnostic imaging modalities, dialysis, 
chemotherapy, radiotherapy, cost of 
pacemaker, stent and similar expenses.
Forming Part of Sum Insured
2 All day care treatments Forming Part of Sum Insured
3 Coverage for Non-medical items 
(Consumables) Forming Part of Sum Insured
4 Emergency Road ambulance Forming Part of Sum Insured
5 Air Ambulance Forming Part of Sum Insured
6 Pre-hospitalization Expenses Forming Part of Sum Insured
7 Post Hospitalization Expenses Forming Part of Sum Insured
8 Domiciliary Hospitalisation Forming Part of Sum Insured
9 Organ Donor Expenses Forming Part of Sum Insured
10 Complications necessitating Redo surgery 
or ICU admission for the Organ donor In addition to Sum Insured
11 Health Check Up Assure In addition to Sum Insured
12 Home care treatment Forming Part of Sum Insured
13 Delivery Expenses Forming Part of Sum Insured
14 In Utero Fetal Surgery/Intervention Forming Part of Sum Insured
15 Assisted Reproduction Treatment Forming Part of Sum Insured
16 Hospitalisation expenses for Treatment of 
New Born Baby Forming Part of Sum Insured
17 Compassionate Travel In addition to Sum Insured
18 Repatriation of Mortal Remains In addition to Sum Insured
19 Treatment in Valuable Service Providers 
Network In addition to Sum Insured
20 Shared Accommodation In addition to Sum Insured
List of Beneﬁts which are part of sum insured and in addition to sum insured
SI.No. Coverage Forming Part of Sum Insured 
/ In addition to Sum Insured
21 AYUSH Treatment Forming Part of Sum Insured
22 Coverage for Modern Treatment Forming Part of Sum Insured
23 Automatic Restoration of Sum Insured: In addition to Sum Insured
24 Treatment for Chronic Severe Refractory 
Asthma Forming Part of Sum Insured
25 Rehabilitation and Pain Management Forming Part of Sum Insured
Sum Insured Aggregate Deductible 
Option Discount Offered
Up to Rs. 20 lakhs Rs. 50,000/- 45%
Rs. 1,00,000/- 55%
Above Rs. 20 lakhs Rs. 50,000/- 35%
Rs. 1,00,000/- 50%

--- PAGE 12 ---

12 of 20Unique Identiﬁcation No.: SHAHLIP23017V012223Star Health Assure Insurance Policy POL / SHA / V.1 / 2022
12. Varicose veins and Varicose ulcers
13. All types of transplant and related surgeries.
14. Congenital Internal disease / defect 
Note :Waiting period for the following beneﬁts are as follows
a. Delivery Expenses Cover: Beneﬁt under this section is subject to a waiting 
period of 24 months from the date of ﬁrst commencement of Star Health Assure 
Insurance policy and its continuous renewal thereof with the Company
b. In Utero Fetal Surgery / Intervention: The Company will pay the expenses 
incurred for In Utero Fetal Surgeries and Procedures mentioned below after the 
waiting period of 24 months from the date of inception of this policy
c. Assisted Reproduction Treatment: A waiting period of 24 months from the 
date of ﬁrst inception of this policy with the Company for the insured person
d. New Born Baby Cover: This cover is available only If Delivery Expenses Claim 
is paid under this policy or if Mother is covered under this policy for a continuous 
period of 12 months without break
3. 30-day waiting period - Code Excl 03
A. Expenses related to the treatment of any illness within 30 days from the ﬁrst 
policy commencement date shall be excluded except claims arising due to an 
accident, provided the same are covered
B. This exclusion shall not, however, apply if the Insured Person has Continuous 
Coverage for more than twelve months
C. The within referred waiting period is made applicable to the enhanced sum 
insured in the event of granting higher sum insured subsequently
4. Investigation & Evaluation - Code Excl 04
A. Expenses related to any admission primarily for diagnostics and evaluation 
purposes only are excluded
B. Any diagnostic expenses which are not related or not incidental to the current 
diagnosis and treatment are excluded
5. Rest Cure, rehabilitation (except to the extent covered under Coverage 28) and 
respite care - Code Excl 05: Expenses related to any admission primarily for 
enforced bed rest and not for receiving treatment. This also includes:
i. Custodial care either at home or in a nursing facility for personal care such as 
help with activities of daily living such as bathing, dressing, moving around either 
by skilled nurses or assistant or non-skilled persons
ii. Any services for people who are terminally ill to address physical, social, 
emotional and spiritual needs
6. Obesity/ Weight Control - Code Excl 06: Expenses related to the surgical treatment 
of obesity that does not fulﬁl all the below conditions;
A. Surgery to be conducted is upon the advice of the Doctor
B. The surgery/Procedure conducted should be supported by clinical protocols
C. The member has to be 18 years of age or older and
D. Body Mass Index(BMI);
1. greater than or equal to 40 or
2. greater than or equal to 35 in conjunction with any of the following severe 
co-morbidities following failure of less invasive methods of weight loss:
a. Obesity-related cardiomyopathy
b. Coronary heart disease
c. Severe Sleep Apnea
d. Uncontrolled Type2 Diabetes 
7. Change-of-Gender treatments - Code Excl 07: Expenses related to any treatment, 
including surgical management, to change characteristics of the body to those of the 
opposite sex.
8. Cosmetic or plastic Surgery - Code Excl 08: Expenses for cosmetic or plastic 
surgery or any treatment to change appearance unless for reconstruction following an 
Accident, Burn(s) or Cancer or as part of medically necessary treatment to remove a 
direct and immediate health risk to the insured. For this to be considered a medical 
necessity, it must be certiﬁed by the attending Medical Practitioner.
9. Hazardous or Adventure sports - Code Excl 09: Expenses related to any treatment 
necessitated due to participation as a professional in hazardous or adventure sports, 
including but not limited to, para-jumping, rock climbing, mountaineering, rafting, 
motor racing, horse racing or scuba diving, hand gliding, sky diving, deep-sea diving.
10. Breach of law - Code Excl 10: Expenses for treatment directly arising from or 
consequent upon any Insured Person committing or attempting to commit a breach of 
law with criminal intent.
11. Excluded Providers - Code Excl 11: Expenses incurred towards treatment in any 
hospital or by any Medical Practitioner or any other provider speciﬁcally excluded by 
the Insurer and disclosed in its website / notiﬁed to the policyholders are not 
admissible. However, in case of life threatening situations or following an accident, 
expenses up to the stage of stabilization are payable but not the complete claim.
12. Treatment for Alcoholism, drug or substance abuse or any addictive condition and 
consequences thereof - Code Excl 12
13. Treatments received in health hydros, nature cure clinics, spas or similar 
establishments or private beds registered as a nursing home attached to such 
establishments or where admission is arranged wholly or partly for domestic reasons - 
Code Excl 13
14. Dietary supplements and substances that can be purchased without prescription, 
including but not limited to Vitamins, minerals and organic substances unless 
prescribed by a medical practitioner as part of hospitalization claim or day care 
procedure - Code Excl 14
15. Refractive Error - Code Excl 15: Expenses related to the treatment for correction of 
eyesight due to refractive error less than 7.5 dioptres.
16. Unproven Treatments - Code Excl 16: Expenses related to any unproven treatment, 
services and supplies for or in connection with any treatment. Unproven treatments 
are treatments, procedures or supplies that lack signiﬁcant medical documentation to 
support their effectiveness.
17. Sterility and Infertility (except to the extent covered under Coverage 16) - 
Code Excl 17: Expenses related to sterility and infertility. This includes;
a. Any type of contraception, sterilization
b. Assisted Reproduction services including artiﬁcial insemination and advanced 
reproductive technologies such as IVF, ZIFT, GIFT,ICSI
c. Gestational Surrogacy
d. Reversal of sterilization
18. Maternity - Code Excl 18 (except to the extent covered under Coverage 14)
i. Medical treatment expenses traceable to childbirth (including complicated 
deliveries and caesarean sections incurred during hospitalization) except 
ectopic pregnancy;
ii. Expenses towards miscarriage (unless due to an accident) and lawful medical 
termination of pregnancy during the policy period
Speciﬁc Exclusions
19. Circumcision (unless necessary for treatment of a disease not excluded under this 
policy or necessitated due to an accident), Preputioplasty, Frenuloplasty, Preputial 
Dilatation and Removal of SMEGMA -Code Excl 19
20. Congenital External Condition / Defects / Anomalies(except to the extent covered 
under Coverage17) - Code Excl 20
21. Convalescence, general debility, run-down condition, Nutritional deﬁciency states -
Code Excl 21
22. Intentional self -injury - Code Excl 22
23. Injury/disease caused by or arising from or attributable to war, invasion, act of foreign 
enemy, warlike operations (whether war be declared or not) - Code Excl 24
24. Injury or disease caused by or contributed to by nuclear weapons/ materials - 
Code Excl 25
25. Expenses incurred on Enhanced External Counter Pulsation Therapy and related 
therapies, Chelation therapy, Hyperbaric Oxygen Therapy, Rotational Field Quantum 
Magnetic Resonance Therapy, VAX-D, Low level laser therapy, Photodynamic 
therapy and such other therapies similar to those mentioned herein under this 
exclusion - Code Excl 26
26. Unconventional, Untested, Experimental therapies - Code Excl 27
27. Autologous derived Stromal vascular fraction, Chondrocyte Implantation, Procedures 
using Platelet Rich plasma and Intra articular injection therapy - Code Excl 28
28. Biologicals, except when administered as an in-patient, when clinically indicated and 
hospitalization warranted - Code Excl 29
29. Inoculation or Vaccination (except for post–bite treatment and for medical treatment 
for therapeutic reasons) - Code Excl 31
30. Cost of spectacles and contact lens, hearing aids, Cochlear implants and procedures, 
walkers and crutches, wheel chairs, CPAP, BIPAP, Continuous Ambulatory Peritoneal 
Dialysis, infusion pump and such other similar aids - Code Excl 35
31. Any hospitalization which are not medically necessary / does not warrant 
hospitalization - Code Excl 36
32. Existing disease/s, disclosed by the insured and mentioned in the policy schedule 
(based on insured's consent), for speciﬁed ICD codes - Code Excl 38
D. CONDITIONS                                                                                             
STANDARD CONDITIONS
1. Disclosure of Information: The policy shall be void and all premium paid thereon 
shall be forfeited to the Company in the event of misrepresentation, mis description or 
non-disclosure of any material fact by the policyholder.
2. Claim Settlement
A. Condition Precedent to Admission of Liability: The terms and conditions of 
the policy must be fulﬁlled by the insured person for the Company to make any 
payment for claim(s) arising under the policy
B. For Cashless Treatment
a. For assistance call 24 hours help-line 044-69006900 or Toll Free No. 
1800 425 2255. Senior Citizens may call at 044-40020888
b. Inform the ID number for easy reference
c. On admission in the hospital, produce the ID Card issued by the Company 
at the Hospital Helpdesk
d. Obtain the Pre-authorisation Form from the Hospital Help Desk, complete 
the Patient Information and resubmit to the Hospital Help Desk. 

--- PAGE 13 ---

13 of 20Unique Identiﬁcation No.: SHAHLIP23017V012223Star Health Assure Insurance Policy POL / SHA / V.1 / 2022
e. The Treating Doctor will complete the hospitalisation/ treatment information 
and the hospital will ﬁll up expected cost of treatment. This form is submitted 
to the Company
f. The Company will process the request and call for additional documents / 
clariﬁcations if the information furnished is inadequate.
g. Once all the details are furnished, the Company will process the request as 
per the terms and conditions as well as the exclusions therein and either 
approve or reject the request based on the merits.
h. In case of emergency hospitalization information to be given within 24 hours 
after  hospitalization
i. Cashless facility can be availed only in networked Hospitals. For details of 
Networked Hospitals, the insured may visit www.starhealth.in or contact the 
nearest branch or refer to the list of Networked Hospitals provided with the 
policy document.
In non-network hospitals payment must be made up-front and then 
reimbursement will be effected on submission of documents.
Note: The Company reserves the right to call for additional documents wherever 
required. 
Denial of a Pre-authorization request is in no way to be construed as denial of 
treatment or denial of coverage. The Insured Person can go ahead with the 
treatment, settle the hospital bills and submit the claim for a possible 
reimbursement.
C. For Reimbursement claims: Time limit for submission of
D. Notiﬁcation of Claim: Upon the happening of the event, notice with full 
particulars shall be sent to the Company within 24 hours from the date of 
occurrence of the event irrespective of whether the event is likely to give rise to a 
claim under the policy  or not. 
Note: Conditions C and D are precedent to admission of liability under the policy. 
However the Company will examine and relax the time limit mentioned in these 
conditions depending upon the merits of the case. 
E. Documents to be submitted for Reimbursement: The reimbursement claim is 
to be supported with the following documents and submitted within the prescribed 
time limit.
a. Duly completed claim form, and
b. Pre Admission investigations and treatment papers.
c. Discharge Summary from the hospital  
d. Cash receipts from hospital, chemists
e. Cash receipts and reports for tests done 
f. Receipts from doctors, surgeons, anesthetist
g. Certiﬁcate from the attending doctor regarding the diagnosis.
h. KYC (Identity proof with Address) of the proposer, where claim liability is 
above Rs 1 Lakh as per AML Guidelines
Note: For assistance call 24 hours help-line 044-69006900 or Toll Free No. 
1800 425 2255. Senior Citizens may call at 044-40020888
3. Provision for Penal Interest
i) The Company shall settle or reject a claim, as the case may be, within 30 days 
from the date of receipt of last necessary document
ii) ln the case of delay in the payment of a claim, the Company shall be liable to pay 
interest to the policyholder from the date of receipt of last necessary document to 
the date of payment of claim at a rate 2% above the bank rate
iii) However, where the circumstances of a claim warrant an investigation in the 
opinion of the Company, it shall initiate and complete such investigation at the 
earliest, in any case not later than 30 days from the date of receipt of last 
necessary document. ln such cases, the Company shall settle or reject the claim 
within 45 days from the date of receipt of last necessary document
iv) ln case of delay beyond stipulated 45 days, the Company shall be liable to pay 
interest to the policyholder at a rate 2% above the bank rate from the date of 
receipt of last necessary document to the date of payment of claim
v) "Bank rate" shall mean the rate ﬁxed by the Reserve Bank of lndia (RBI) at the 
beginning of the ﬁnancial year in which claim has fallen due.
4. Complete Discharge: Any payment to the policyholder, insured person or his/ her 
nominees or his/ her legal representative or assignee or to the Hospital, as the case 
may be, for any beneﬁt under the policy shall be a valid discharge towards payment of 
claim by the Company to the extent of that amount for the particular claim
5. Multiple Policies
i. ln case of multiple policies taken by an insured person during a period from one 
or more insurers to indemnify treatment costs, the insured person shall have the 
right to require a settlement of his/her claim in terms of any of his/her policies. ln 
all such cases the insurer chosen by the insured person shall be obliged to settle 
the claim as long as the claim is within the limits of and according to the terms of 
the chosen policy
ii. lnsured person having multiple policies shall also have the right to prefer claims 
under this policy for the amounts disallowed under any other policy / policies 
even if the sum insured is not exhausted. Then the insurer shall independently 
settle the claim subject to the terms and conditions of this policy
iii. If the amount to be claimed exceeds the sum insured under a single policy, the 
insured person shall have the right to choose insurer from whom he/she wants to 
claim the balance amount
iv. Where an insured person has policies from more than one insurer to cover the 
same risk on indemnity basis, the insured person shall only be indemniﬁed the 
treatment costs in accordance with the terms and conditions of the chosen policy
6. Fraud: lf any claim made by the insured person, is in any respect fraudulent, or if any 
false statement, or declaration is made or used in support thereof, or if any fraudulent 
means or devices are used by the insured person or anyone acting on his/her behalf to 
obtain any beneﬁt under this policy, all beneﬁts under this policy and the premium paid 
shall be forfeited.
Any amount already paid against claims made under this policy but which are found 
fraudulent later shall be repaid by all recipient(s)/policyholder(s), who has made that 
particular claim, who shall be jointly and severally liable for such repayment to the 
insurer.
For the purpose of this clause, the expression "fraud" means any of the following acts 
committed by the insured person or by his agent or the hospital/doctor/any other party 
acting on behalf of the insured person, with intent to deceive the insurer or to induce 
the insurer to issue an insurance policy:
a) the suggestion, as a fact of that which is not true and which the insured person 
does not believe to be true;
b) the active concealment of a fact by the insured person having knowledge or 
belief of the fact;
c) any other act ﬁtted to deceive; and
d) any such act or omission as the law specially declares to be fraudulent
The Company shall not repudiate the claim and / or forfeit the policy beneﬁts on the 
ground of Fraud, if the insured person / beneﬁciary can prove that the misstatement 
was true to the best of his knowledge and there was no deliberate intention to 
suppress the fact or that such misstatement of or suppression of material fact are 
within the knowledge of the insurer.
7. Cancellation
i. The policyholder may cancel this policy by giving 15 days' written notice and in 
such an event, the Company shall refund premium for the unexpired policy 
period as detailed below;
Sl.No. Type of Claim Prescribed Time Limit
1
Reimbursement of hospitalization, 
day care and pre hospitalization 
expenses 
Claim must be ﬁled within 15 days 
from the date of discharge from the 
Hospital. 
2 Reimbursement of Post 
hospitalization
within 15 days after completion of 
180 days from the date of discharge 
from hospital
Cancellation table applicable for  Policy Term 1 Year without installment option
Period on risk Rate of premium to be retained
Up to one mth 22.5%  of the policy premium
Exceeding one mth up to 3 mths 37.5%  of the policy premium
Exceeding 3 mths up to 6 mths 57.5%  of the policy premium
Exceeding 6 mths up to 9 mths 80%  of the policy premium
Exceeding 9 mths Full  of the policy premium
Cancellation table applicable for Policy Term 1 Year with installment option of 
Half-yearly premium payment frequency
Period on risk Rate of premium to be retained
Up to 1 Mth 45% of the total  premium received
Exceeding one mth up to 4 mths 87.5%  of the total  premium received
Exceeding 4 mths up to 6 mths 100% of the total premium received
Exceeding 6 mths up to 7 mths 65%  of the total  premium received
Exceeding 7 mths up to 10 mths 85%  of the total  premium received
Exceeding 10 mths 100% of the total premium received
Cancellation table applicable for  Policy Term 1 Year with installment option of 
Quarterly premium payment frequency
Period on risk Rate of premium to be retained
Up to 1 Mth 87.5% of the total premium received
Exceeding one mth up to 3 mths 100% of the total premium received
Exceeding 3 mths up to 4 mths 87.5% of the total premium received
Exceeding 4 mths up to 6 mths 100% of the total premium received
Exceeding 6 mths up to 7 mths 85%  of the total premium received
Exceeding 7 mths up to 9 mths 100% of the total premium received
Exceeding 9 mths up to 10 mths 85%  of the total premium received
Exceeding 10 mths 100% of the total premium received

--- PAGE 14 ---

14 of 20Unique Identiﬁcation No.: SHAHLIP23017V012223Star Health Assure Insurance Policy POL / SHA / V.1 / 2022
Notwithstanding anything contained herein or otherwise, no refunds of premium shall 
be made in respect of Cancellation where, any claim has been admitted or has been 
lodged or any beneﬁt has been availed by the insured person under the policy.
ii. The Company may cancel the policy at any time on grounds of misrepresentation, 
non-disclosure of material facts, fraud by the insured person by giving 15 days' 
written notice. There would be no refund of premium on cancellation on grounds 
of misrepresentation, non-disclosure of material facts or fraud
8. Migration: The insured person will have the option to migrate the policy to other 
health insurance products/plans offered by the company by applying for migration of 
the Policy atleast 30 days before the policy renewal date as per IRDAI guidelines on 
Migration. lf such person is presently covered and has been continuously covered 
without any lapses under any health insurance product/plan offered by the company, 
the insured person will get the accrued continuity beneﬁts in waiting periods as per 
IRDAI guidelines on migration.
For Detailed Guidelines on migration, kindly refer the link
https://www.irdai.gov.in/ADMINCMS/cms/frmGuidelines_Layout.aspx?page=PageNo3987
9. Portability: The insured person will have the option to port the policy to other insurers 
by applying to such insurer to port the entire policy along with all the members of the 
family, if any, at least 45 days before, but not earlier than 60 days from the policy renewal 
date as per IRDAI guidelines related to portability. lf such person is presently covered 
and has been continuously covered without any lapses under any health insurance 
policy with an lndian General/Health insurer, the proposed insured person will get the 
accrued continuity beneﬁts in waiting periods as per IRDAI guidelines on portability.
For Detailed Guidelines on portability, kindly refer the link
https://www.irdai.gov.in/ADMINCMS/cms/frmGuidelines_Layout.aspx?page=PageNo3987
10. Renewal of policy: The policy shall ordinarily be renewable except on grounds of 
fraud, misrepresentation by the Insured Person.
i) The Company shall endeavor to give notice for renewal. However, the Company 
is not under obligation to give any notice for renewal.
ii) Renewal shall not be denied on the ground that the insured person had made a 
claim or claims in the preceding policy years.
iii) Request for renewal along with requisite premium shall be received by the 
Company before the end of the policy period.
iv) At the end of the policy period, the policy shall terminate and can be renewed 
within the Grace Period of 30 days to maintain continuity of beneﬁts without 
break in policy.
v) Coverage is not available during the grace period.
vi) No loading shall apply on renewals based on individual claims experience
11. Withdrawal of policy
i. In the likelihood of this product being withdrawn in future, the Company will 
intimate the insured person about the same 90 days prior to expiry of the policy
ii. lnsured Person will have the option to migrate to similar health insurance product 
available with the Company at the time of renewal with all the accrued continuity 
beneﬁts such as cumulative bonus, waiver of waiting period as per IRDAI 
guidelines, provided the policy has been maintained without a break
12. Moratorium Period: After completion of eight continuous years under the policy no look 
back to be applied. This period of eight years is called as moratorium period. The 
moratorium would be applicable for the sums insured of the ﬁrst policy and subsequently 
completion of 8 continuous years would be applicable from date of enhancement of 
sums insured only on the enhanced limits. After the expiry of Moratorium Period no 
health insurance claim shall be contestable except for proven fraud and permanent 
exclusions speciﬁed in the policy contract. The policies would however be subject to all 
limits, sub limits, co-payments, deductibles as per the policy contract.
13. Premium Payment in Instalments: lf the insured person has opted for Payment of 
Premium on an instalment basis i.e. Half Yearly or Quarterly or as mentioned in the 
policy Schedule/Certiﬁcate of Insurance, the following Conditions shall apply 
(notwithstanding any terms contrary elsewhere in the policy)
i. Grace Period of 7 days would be given to pay the instalment premium due for the 
policy.
ii. During such grace period, coverage will not be available from the due date of 
instalment premium till the date of receipt of premium by Company.
iii. The insured person will get the accrued continuity beneﬁt in respect of the 
"Waiting Periods", "Speciﬁc Waiting Periods" in the event of payment of premium 
within the stipulated grace Period.
iv. No interest will be charged lf the instalment premium is not paid on due date.
v. ln case of instalment premium due not received within the grace period, the 
policy will get cancelled.
vi. ln the event of a claim, all subsequent premium instalments shall immediately 
become due and payable.
vii. The company has the right to recover and deduct all the pending installments 
from the claim amount due under the policy.
14. Possibility of Revision of Terms of the Policy lncluding the Premium Rates: The 
Company, with prior approval of lRDAl, may revise or modify the terms of the policy 
including the premium rates. The insured person shall be notiﬁed three months before 
the changes are effected.
15. Free Look Period: The Free Look Period shall be applicable on new individual health 
insurance policies and not on renewals or at the time of porting/migrating the policy.
The insured person shall be allowed free look period of ﬁfteen days from date of 
receipt of the policy document to review the terms and conditions of the policy, and to 
return the same if not acceptable.
lf the insured has not made any claim during the Free Look Period, the insured shall be 
entitled to
i. a refund of the premium paid less any expenses incurred by the Company on 
medical examination of the insured person and the stamp duty charges or
ii. where the risk has already commenced and the option of return of the policy is 
exercised by the insured person, a deduction towards the proportionate risk 
premium for period of cover or
iii. where only a part of the insurance coverage has commenced, such proportionate 
premium commensurate with the insurance coverage during such period
16. Redressal of Grievance: Incase of any grievance the insured person may contact 
the Company through
Website : www.starhealth.in
E-mail : gro@starhealth.in, grievances@starhealth.in
Ph. No. : 044-69006900 | Toll Free No. 1800 425 2255
Senior Citizens may call at 044-69007500
Courier : 4th Floor, Balaji Complex, No.15, Whites Lane, Whites Road, 
Royapettah, Chennai- 600014
lnsured person may also approach the grievance cell at any of the company's 
branches with the details of grievance.
lf lnsured person is not satisﬁed with the redressal of grievance through one of the 
above methods, insured person may contact the grievance ofﬁcer at  044-43664600.
For updated details of grievance ofﬁcer, kindly refer the link
https://www.starhealth.in/grievance-redressal
lf lnsured person is not satisﬁed with the redressal of grievance through above 
methods, the insured person may also approach the ofﬁce of lnsurance Ombudsman 
of the respective area/region for redressal of grievance as per lnsurance Ombudsman 
Rules 2017.
Grievance may also be lodged at IRDAI lntegrated Grievance Management System - 
https://igms.irda.gov.in/
17. Nomination: The policyholder is required at the inception of the policy to make a 
nomination for the purpose of payment of claims under the policy in the event of death 
of the policyholder. Any change of nomination shall be communicated to the company 
in writing and such change shall be effective only when an endorsement on the policy 
is made. ln the event of death of the policyholder, the Company will pay the nominee 
{as named in the Policy Schedule/Policy Certiﬁcate/Endorsement (if any)} and in case 
there is no subsisting nominee, to the legal heirs or legal representatives of the 
policyholder whose discharge shall be treated as full and ﬁnal discharge of its liability 
under the policy.
Cancellation table applicable for  Policy Term 2 Year
Period on risk Rate of premium to be retained
Up to 1 Mth 17.5% of the policy premium
Exceeding one mth up to 3 mths 25% of the policy premium
Exceeding 3 mths up to 6 mths 37.5% of the policy premium
Exceeding 6 mths up to 9 mths 47.5% of the policy premium
Exceeding 9 mths up to 12 mths 57.5% of the policy premium
Exceeding 12 mths up to 15 mths 67.5% of the policy premium
Exceeding 15 mths up to 18 mths 80% of the policy premium
Exceeding 18 mths up to 21 mths 90% of the  policy premium
Exceeding 21 mths Full  of the policy premium
Cancellation table applicable for Policy Term 3 Year
Period on risk Rate of premium to be retained
Up to 1 Mth 17.5% of the policy premium
Exceeding one mth up to 3 mths 22.5% of the policy premium
Exceeding 3 mths up to 6 mths 30% of the policy premium
Exceeding 6 mths up to 9 mths 37.5% of the policy premium
Exceeding 9 mths up to 12 mths 42.5% of the policy premium
Exceeding 12 mths up to 15 mths 50% of the policy premium
Exceeding 15 mths up to 18 mths 57.5% of the policy premium
Exceeding 18 mths up to 21 mths 65% of the  policy premium
Exceeding 21 mths up to 24 mths 72.5% of the  policy premium
Exceeding 24 mths up to 27 mths 80% of the  policy premium
Exceeding 27 mths up to 30 mths 85% of the  policy premium
Exceeding 30 mths up to 33 mths 92.5% of the  policy premium
Exceeding 33 mths Full  of the policy premium

--- PAGE 15 ---

15 of 20Unique Identiﬁcation No.: SHAHLIP23017V012223Star Health Assure Insurance Policy POL / SHA / V.1 / 2022
SPECIFIC CONDITIONS
18. The Insured Person/s shall obtain and furnish the Company with all original bills, 
receipts and other documents upon which a claim is based and shall also give the 
Company such additional information and assistance as the Company may require in 
dealing with the claim.
19. All claims under this policy shall be payable in Indian currency
20. The premium under this policy shall be payable in advance. No receipt of premium 
shall be valid except on the ofﬁcial form of the company signed by a duly authorized 
ofﬁcial of the company. The due payment of premium and the observance of fulﬁllment 
of the terms, provision, conditions and endorsements of this policy by the Insured 
Person/s, in so far as they relate to anything to be done or complied with by the 
Insured Person/s, shall be a condition precedent to any liability of the Company to 
make any payment under this policy. No waiver of any terms, provisions, conditions, 
and endorsements of this policy shall be valid unless made in writing and signed by an 
authorized ofﬁcial of the Company. 
21. Any medical practitioner authorized by the Company shall be allowed to examine the 
Insured Person in case of any alleged injury or diseases requiring Hospitalization 
when and as often as the same may reasonably be required on behalf of the Company 
at Company's cost. 
22. Notice and communication: Any notice, direction or instruction given under this 
Policy shall be in writing and delivered by hand, post, or facsimile/email to  Star Health 
and Allied Insurance Company Limited, No.1, New Tank Street, Valluvar Kottam High 
Road, Nungambakkam, Chennai 600034. Customer Care No. 044-69006900 or 
Toll Free No. 1800 425 2255, e-mail: support@starhealth.in
Notice and instructions will be deemed served 7 days after posting or immediately 
upon receipt in the case of hand delivery, facsimile or e-mail.
23. Territorial Limit : All investigations/treatments under this policy shall have to be taken 
in India.
24. Automatic Termination: The insurance under this policy with respect to each 
relevant Insured Person policy shall expire immediately on the earlier of the following 
events 
ü Upon the death of the Insured Person This means that, the cover for the surviving 
members of the family will continue, subject to other terms of the policy.
ü Upon exhaustion of the Sum Insured, Limit of Coverage, Limit of Coverage plus 
Restore Sum Insured.
25. Policy disputes: Any dispute concerning the interpretation of the terms, conditions, 
limitations and/or exclusions contained herein is understood and agreed to by both 
the Insured and the Company to be subject to Indian Law.
26. Arbitration: If any dispute or difference  shall arise as to the quantum to be paid under 
this Policy (liability being otherwise admitted) such difference shall independently of 
all other questions be referred to the decision of a sole arbitrator to be appointed in 
writing by the parties to the dispute/difference, or if they cannot agree upon a single 
arbitrator within 30 days of any party invoking arbitration, the same shall be referred to 
a panel of three arbitrators, comprising of two arbitrators, one to be appointed by each 
of the parties to the dispute/difference and the third arbitrator to be appointed by such 
two arbitrators. Arbitration shall be conducted under and in accordance with the 
provisions of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996.
It is clearly agreed and understood that no difference or dispute shall be referable to 
arbitration, as hereinbefore provided, if the Company has disputed or not accepted 
liability under or in respect of this Policy.
It is hereby expressly stipulated and declared that it shall be a condition precedent to 
any right of action or suit upon this Policy that the award by such arbitrator/ arbitrators 
of the amount of the loss or damage shall be ﬁrst obtained. 
It is also further expressly agreed and declared that if the Company shall disclaim 
liability to the Insured for any claim hereunder and such claim shall not, within three 
years from the date of such disclaimer have been made the subject matter of a suit in a 
Court of Law, then the claim shall for all purposes be deemed to have been 
abandoned and shall not thereafter be recoverable hereunder.
27. Revision of Sum Insured: Reduction or enhancement of  Sum Insured is 
permissible only at the time of renewal. The acceptance for enhancement and the 
amount of enhancement will be at the discretion of the Company and subject to 
Exclusion Code Excl 01, Exclusion Code Excl 02 and Exclusion Code Excl 03.
28. Relief under Section 80-D: Insured Person is eligible for relief under Section 80-D of 
the IT Act in respect of the premium paid by any mode other than cash
29. Important Note
a) Where the policy is issued for more than 1 year, the Sum Insured including 
sublimits, automatic restoration beneﬁt (if applicable), is for each of the year, 
without any carry over beneﬁt thereof. The said beneﬁts / covers available for the 
2nd year or 3rd year cannot be utilized in the 1st year itself. The terms, conditions 
and exceptions that appear in the Policy or in any Endorsement are part of the 
contract, must be complied with and applies to each policy year
b) Where the policy is issued on ﬂoater basis, the Sum Insured, cumulative bonus 
and other related beneﬁts ﬂoats amongst the insured members
c) The Policy Schedule and any Endorsement are to be read together and any word 
or such meaning wherever it appears shall have the meaning as stated in the Act 
/ Indian Laws
d) The terms, conditions and exceptions that appear in the Policy or in any 
Endorsement are part of the contract, must be complied with and applies to each 
relevant insured person. Failure to comply with may result in the claim being 
denied
e) The attention of the policy holder is drawn to our website www.starhealth.in for 
anti fraud policy of the company for necessary compliance by all stake holders
30. Customer Service: If at any time the Insured Person requires any clariﬁcation or 
assistance, the insured may contact No.1, New Tank Street, Valluvar Kottam High 
Road, Nungambakkam, Chennai 600034, during normal business hours.

--- PAGE 16 ---

16 of 20Unique Identiﬁcation No.: SHAHLIP23017V012223Star Health Assure Insurance Policy POL / SHA / V.1 / 2022
List of Insurance Ombudsman
AHMEDABAD
Ofﬁce of the Insurance Ombudsman, 
Jeevan Prakash Building, 6th ﬂoor, Tilak 
Marg, Relief Road, Ahmedabad – 380 001.
Tel.: 079 - 25501201/02/05/06
Email: bimalokpal.ahmedabad@cioins.co.in
JURISDICTION: Gujarat, Dadra & Nagar 
Haveli, Daman and Diu.
BENGALURU
Ofﬁce of the Insurance Ombudsman, 
Jeevan Soudha Building,PID No. 57-27-N-
19 Ground Floor, 19/19, 24th Main Road, 
JP Nagar, Ist Phase, Bengaluru – 560 078. 
Tel.: 080 - 26652048 / 26652049
Email: bimalokpal.bengaluru@cioins.co.in
JURISDICTION: Karnataka.
BHOPAL
Ofﬁce of the Insurance Ombudsman, 
Janak Vihar Complex, 2nd Floor, 
6, Malviya Nagar, Opp. Airtel Ofﬁce, 
Near New Market, Bhopal – 462 003.
Tel.: 0755 - 2769201 / 2769202
Fax: 0755 – 2769203
Email: bimalokpal.bhopal@cioins.co.in
JURISDICTION: Madhya Pradesh
Chattisgarh.
BHUBANESHWAR
Ofﬁce of the Insurance Ombudsman, 
62, Forest park,
Bhubneshwar – 751 009.
Tel.: 0674 - 2596461 /2596455
Fax: 0674 – 2596429
Email: bimalokpal.bhubaneswar@cioins.co.in
JURISDICTION: Orissa.
CHANDIGARH
Ofﬁce of the Insurance Ombudsman, 
S.C.O. No. 101, 102 & 103, 2nd Floor, 
Batra Building, Sector 17 – D, Chandigarh 
– 160 017. Tel.: 0172 - 2706196 / 2706468 
Fax: 0172 - 2708274
Email: bimalokpal.chandigarh@cioins.co.in
JURISDICTION: Punjab, Haryana 
(excluding Gurugram, Faridabad, Sonepat 
and Bahadurgarh) Himachal Pradesh, 
Union Territories of Jammu & Kashmir, 
Ladakh & Chandigarh.
CHENNAI
Ofﬁce of the Insurance Ombudsman, 
Fatima Akhtar Court, 4th Floor, 453,
Anna Salai, Teynampet,
Chennai – 600 018.
Tel.: 044 - 24333668 / 24335284
Fax: 044 - 24333664
Email: bimalokpal.chennai@cioins.co.in
JURISDICTION: Tamil Nadu,
Tamil Nadu Puducherry Town and Karaikal 
(which are part of Puducherry).
DELHI
Ofﬁce of the Insurance Ombudsman,
2/2 A, Universal Insurance Building,
Asaf Ali Road, New Delhi – 110 002.
Tel.: 011 - 23232481/23213504
Email: bimalokpal.delhi@cioins.co.in
JURISDICTION: Delhi &
Following Districts of Haryana - Gurugram, 
Faridabad, Sonepat & Bahadurgarh.
ERNAKULAM
Ofﬁce of the Insurance Ombudsman,
2nd Floor, Pulinat Bldg.,
Opp. Cochin Shipyard, M. G. Road, 
Ernakulam - 682 015.
Tel.: 0484 - 2358759 / 2359338
Fax: 0484 - 2359336
Email: bimalokpal.ernakulam@cioins.co.in
JURISDICTION: Kerala, Lakshadweep,
Mahe-a part of Union Territory of 
Puducherry.
GUWAHATI
Ofﬁce of the Insurance Ombudsman, 
Jeevan Nivesh, 5th Floor,
Nr. Panbazar over bridge, S.S. Road, 
Guwahati – 781001(ASSAM).
Tel.: 0361 - 2632204 / 2602205
Email: bimalokpal.guwahati@cioins.co.in
JURISDICTION: Assam, Meghalaya,
Manipur, Mizoram, Arunachal Pradesh, 
Nagaland and Tripura.
HYDERABAD
Ofﬁce of the Insurance Ombudsman,
6-2-46, 1st ﬂoor, "Moin Court",
Lane Opp. Saleem Function Palace, A. C. 
Guards, Lakdi-Ka-Pool,
Hyderabad - 500 004.
Tel.: 040 – 23312122 Fax: 040 - 23376599
Email: bimalokpal.hyderabad@cioins.co.in
JURISDICTION: Andhra Pradesh,
Telangana, Yanam and
part of Union Territory of Puducherry.
JAIPUR
Ofﬁce of the Insurance Ombudsman, 
Jeevan Nidhi – II Bldg., Gr. Floor,
Bhawani Singh Marg, Jaipur - 302 
005.Tel.: 0141 - 2740363
Email: bimalokpal.jaipur@cioins.co.in
JURISDICTION: Rajasthan.
KOLKATA
Ofﬁce of the Insurance Ombudsman, 
Hindustan Bldg. Annexe, 4th Floor,
4, C.R. Avenue, KOLKATA - 700 072.
Tel.: 033 - 22124339 / 22124340
Fax : 033 – 22124341
Email: bimalokpal.kolkata@cioins.co.in
JURISDICTION: West Bengal, Sikkim,
Andaman & Nicobar Islands.
LUCKNOW
Ofﬁce of the Insurance Ombudsman,
6th Floor, Jeevan Bhawan, Phase-II, 
Nawal Kishore Road, Hazratganj,
Lucknow - 226 001.
Tel.: 0522 - 2231330 / 2231331
Fax: 0522 - 2231310
Email: bimalokpal.lucknow@cioins.co.in
JURISDICTION: Districts of Uttar Pradesh  
Lalitpur, Jhansi, Mahoba, Hamirpur, 
Banda, Chitrakoot, Allahabad, Mirzapur, 
Sonbhabdra, Fatehpur, Pratapgarh, 
Jaunpur,Varanasi, Gazipur, Jalaun, 
Kanpur, Lucknow, Unnao, Sitapur, 
Lakhimpur, Bahraich, Barabanki, 
Raebareli, Sravasti, Gonda, Faizabad, 
Amethi, Kaushambi, Balrampur, Basti, 
Ambedkarnagar, Sultanpur, Maharajgang, 
Santkabirnagar, Azamgarh, Kushinagar, 
Gorkhpur, Deoria, Mau, Ghazipur, 
Chandauli, Ballia, Sidharathnagar.
MUMBAI
Ofﬁce of the Insurance Ombudsman,
3rd Floor, Jeevan Seva Annexe,
S. V. Road, Santacruz (W),
Mumbai - 400 054.
Tel.: 022 - 26106552 / 26106960
Fax: 022 – 26106052
Email: bimalokpal.mumbai@cioins.co.in
JURISDICTION: Goa, Mumbai 
Metropolitan Region
excluding Navi Mumbai & Thane.
NOIDA
Ofﬁce of the Insurance Ombudsman,
Bhagwan Sahai Palace
4th Floor, Main Road,
Naya Bans, Sector 15,
Distt: Gautam Buddh Nagar,
U.P-201301.
Tel.: 0120-2514252 / 2514253
Email: bimalokpal.noida@cioins.co.in
JURISDICTION: State of Uttaranchal and 
the following Districts of Uttar Pradesh:
Agra, Aligarh, Bagpat, Bareilly, Bijnor, 
Budaun, Bulandshehar, Etah, Kanooj, 
Mainpuri, Mathura, Meerut, Moradabad, 
Muzaffarnagar, Oraiyya, Pilibhit, Etawah, 
Farrukhabad, Firozbad, 
Gautambodhanagar, Ghaziabad, Hardoi, 
Shahjahanpur, Hapur, Shamli, Rampur, 
Kashganj, Sambhal, Amroha, Hathras, 
Kanshiramnagar, Saharanpur.
PATNA
Ofﬁce of the Insurance Ombudsman,
1st Floor,Kalpana Arcade Building,
Bazar Samiti Road, Bahadurpur,
Patna 800 006. Tel.: 0612-2680952
Email: bimalokpal.patna@cioins.co.in
JURISDICTION: Bihar,
Jharkhand.
PUNE
Ofﬁce of the Insurance Ombudsman, 
Jeevan Darshan Bldg., 3rd Floor,
C.T.S. No.s. 195 to 198, N.C.
Kelkar Road, Narayan Peth,
Pune – 411 030. Tel.: 020-41312555 
Email: bimalokpal.pune@cioins.co.in
JURISDICTION: Maharashtra, Area of 
Navi Mumbai and Thane excluding 
Mumbai Metropolitan Region.

--- PAGE 17 ---

17 of 20Unique Identiﬁcation No.: SHAHLIP23017V012223Star Health Assure Insurance Policy POL / SHA / V.1 / 2022
LIST I — ITEMS FOR WHICH COVERAGE IS AVAILABLE IN THE POLICY
SI.NO. ITEM SI.NO. ITEM
1 BABY FOOD 35 OXYGEN CYLINDER (FOR USAGE OUTSIDE THE HOSPITAL)
2 BABY UTILITIES CHARGES 36 SPACER
3 BEAUTY SERVICES 37 SPIROMETRE
4 BELTS/ BRACES 38 NEBULIZER KIT
5 BUDS 39 STEAM INHALER
6 COLD PACK/HOT PACK 40 ARMSLING
7 CARRY BAGS 41 THERMOMETER
8 EMAIL / INTERNET CHARGES 42 CERVICAL COLLAR
9 FOOD CHARGES
(OTHER THAN PATIENT's DIET PROVIDED BY HOSPITAL) 43 SPLINT
10 LEGGINGS 44 DIABETIC FOOT WEAR
11 LAUNDRY CHARGES 45 KNEE BRACES (LONG/ SHORT/ HINGED)
12 MINERAL WATER 46 KNEE IMMOBILIZER/SHOULDER IMMOBILIZER
13 SANITARY PAD 47 LUMBO SACRAL BELT
14 TELEPHONE CHARGES 48 NIMBUS BED OR WATER OR AIR BED CHARGES
15 GUEST SERVICES 49 AMBULANCE COLLAR
16 CREPE BANDAGE 50 AMBULANCE EQUIPMENT
17 DIAPER OF ANY TYPE 51 ABDOMINAL BINDER
18 EYELET COLLAR 52 PRIVATE NURSES CHARGES- SPECIAL NURSING CHARGES
19 SLINGS 53 SUGAR FREE Tablets
20 BLOOD GROUPING AND CROSS MATCHING OF DONORS SAMPLES 54 CREAMS POWDERS LOTIONS (TOILETRIES ARE NOT PAYABLE, ONLY 
PRESCRIBED MEDICAL PHARMACEUTICALS PAYABLE)
21 SERVICE CHARGES WHERE NURSING CHARGE ALSO CHARGED 55 ECG ELECTRODES
22 TELEVISION CHARGES 56 GLOVES
23 SURCHARGES 57 NEBULISATION KIT
24 ATTENDANT CHARGES 58 ANY KIT WITH NO DETAILS MENTIONED [DELIVERY KIT, ORTHOKIT, 
RECOVERY KIT, ETC]
25 EXTRA DIET OF PATIENT
(OTHER THAN THAT WHICH FORMS PART OF BED CHARGE) 59 KIDNEY TRAY
26 BIRTH CERTIFICATE 60 MASK
27 CERTIFICATE CHARGES 61 OUNCE GLASS
28 COURIER CHARGES 62 OXYGEN MASK
29 CONVEYANCE CHARGES 63 PELVIC TRACTION BELT
30 MEDICAL CERTIFICATE 64 PAN CAN
31 MEDICAL RECORDS 65 TROLLY COVER
32 PHOTOCOPIES CHARGES 66 UROMETER, URINE JUG
33 MORTUARY CHARGES 67 AMBULANCE
34 WALKING AIDS CHARGES 68 VASOFIX SAFETY

--- PAGE 18 ---

18 of 20Unique Identiﬁcation No.: SHAHLIP23017V012223Star Health Assure Insurance Policy POL / SHA / V.1 / 2022
ITEMS THAT ARE TO BE SUBSUMED INTO ROOM CHARGES
SI.NO. ITEM SI.NO. ITEM
1 BABY CHARGES (UNLESS SPECIFIED/INDICATED) 20 LUXURY TAX
2 HAND WASH 21 HVAC
3 SHOE COVER 22 HOUSE KEEPING CHARGES
4 CAPS 23 AIR CONDITIONER CHARGES
5 CRADLE CHARGES 24 IM IV INJECTION CHARGES
6 COMB 25 CLEAN SHEET
7 EAU-DE-COLOGNE / ROOM FRESHNERS 26 BLANKET / WARMER BLANKET
8 FOOT COVER 27 ADMISSION KIT
9 GOWN 28 DIABETIC CHART CHARGES
10 SLIPPERS 29 DOCUMENTATION CHARGES / ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES
11 TISSUE PAPER 30 DISCHARGE PROCEDURE CHARGES
12 TOOTH PASTE 31 DAILY CHART CHARGES
13 TOOTH BRUSH 32 ENTRANCE PASS / VISITORS PASS CHARGES
14 BED PAN 33 EXPENSES RELATED TO PRESCRIPTION ON DISCHARGE
15 FACE MASK 34 FILE OPENING CHARGES
16 FLEXI MASK 35 INCIDENTAL EXPENSES / MISC. CHARGES (NOT EXPLAINED)
17 HAND HOLDER 36 PATIENT IDENTIFICATION BAND / NAME TAG
18 SPUTUM CUP
37 PULSEOXYMETER CHARGES
19 DISINFECTANT LOTIONS
ITEMS THAT ARE TO BE SUBSUMED INTO PROCEDURE CHARGES
SI.NO. ITEM SI.NO. ITEM
1 HAIR REMOVAL CREAM 13 SURGICAL DRILL
2 DISPOSABLES RAZORS CHARGES (for site preparations) 14 EYE KIT
3 EYE PAD 15 EYE DRAPE
4 EYE SHEILD 16 X-RAY FILM
5 CAMERA COVER 17 BOYLES APPARATUS CHARGES
6 DVD, CD CHARGES 18 COTTON
7 GAUSE SOFT 19 COTTON BANDAGE
8 GAUZE 20 SURGICAL TAPE
9 WARD AND THEATRE BOOKING CHARGES 21 APRON
10 ARTHROSCOPY AND ENDOSCOPY INSTRUMENTS 22 TORNIQUET
11 MICROSCOPE COVER
23 ORTHOBUNDLE, GYNAEC BUNDLE
12 SURGICAL BLADES, HARMONICSCALPEL,SHAVER
ITEMS THAT ARE TO BE SUBSUMED INTO COSTS OF TREATMENT 
SI.NO. ITEM SI.NO. ITEM
1 ADMISSION / REGISTRATION CHARGES 10 HIV KIT
2 HOSPITALISATION FOR EVALUATION / DIAGNOSTIC PURPOSE 11 ANTISEPTIC MOUTHWASH
3 URINE CONTAINER 12 LOZENGES
4 BLOOD RESERVATION CHARGES AND ANTE NATAL BOOKING CHARGES 13 MOUTH PAINT
5 BIPAP MACHINE 14 VACCINATION CHARGES
6 CPAP / CAPD EQUIPMENTS 15 ALCOHOL SWABS
7 INFUSION PUMP — COST 16 SCRUB SOLUTION / STERILLIUM
8 HYDROGEN PEROXIDE / SPIRIT / DISINFECTANTS ETC 17 GLUCOMETER & STRIPS
9 NUTRITION PLANNING CHARGES - DIETICIAN CHARGES - DIET CHARGES 18 URINE BAG

--- PAGE 19 ---

19 of 20Unique Identiﬁcation No.: SHAHLIP23017V012223Star Health Assure Insurance Policy POL / SHA / V.1 / 2022
SCHEDULE OF BENEFITS
S.No Sum Insured (INR) 5 lacs 10 lacs 15 lacs 20 lacs 25 lacs 50 lacs 75 lacs 1 Crore 2 Crore
1 Room, Boarding and Nursing 
charges
Up to 1% of 
Sum 
Insured or 
upto 
Rs.20,000/- 
per day 
whichever is 
less
Up to 1% of 
Sum 
Insured or 
upto 
Rs.20,000/- 
per day 
whichever is 
less
Up to 1% of 
Sum 
Insured or 
upto 
Rs.20,000/- 
per day 
whichever is 
less
Up to 1% of 
Sum 
Insured or 
upto 
Rs.20,000/- 
per day 
whichever is 
less
Up to 1% of 
Sum 
Insured or 
upto 
Rs.20,000/- 
per day 
whichever is 
less
Up to 1% of 
Sum 
Insured or 
upto 
Rs.20,000/- 
per day 
whichever is 
less
No limit on 
Room Rent 
(Any room)
No limit on 
Room Rent 
(Any room)
No limit on 
Room Rent 
(Any room)
2 ICU/Operation Theatre Charges Actual Actual Actual Actual Actual Actual Actual Actual Actual
3 Road Ambulance Charges (per 
policy period) Actual Actual Actual Actual Actual Actual Actual Actual Actual
4 Air Ambulance (per policy year) up to 10% of 
sum insured 
up to 10% of 
sum insured 
up to 10% of 
sum insured 
up to 10% of 
sum insured 
up to 10% of 
sum insured 
up to 10% of 
sum insured 
up to 10% of 
sum insured 
up to 10% of 
sum insured 
up to 10% of 
sum insured 
5 Pre Hospitalisation Expenses 
incurred 
Up to 60 
days
Up to 60 
days
Up to 60 
days
Up to 60 
days
Up to 60 
days
Up to 60 
days
Up to 60 
days
Up to 60 
days
Up to 60 
days
6 Post Hospitalisation Expenses 
incurred 
Up to 180 
days
Up to 180 
days
Up to 180 
days
Up to 180 
days
Up to 180 
days
Up to 180 
days
Up to 180 
days
Up to 180 
days
Up to 180 
days
7 Domiciliary Hospitalization
Coverage 
for medical 
treatment 
(Including 
AYUSH) for 
a period 
exceeding 
three days
Coverage 
for medical 
treatment 
(Including 
AYUSH) for 
a period 
exceeding 
three days
Coverage 
for medical 
treatment 
(Including 
AYUSH) for 
a period 
exceeding 
three days
Coverage 
for medical 
treatment 
(Including 
AYUSH) for 
a period 
exceeding 
three days
Coverage 
for medical 
treatment 
(Including 
AYUSH) for 
a period 
exceeding 
three days
Coverage 
for medical 
treatment 
(Including 
AYUSH) for 
a period 
exceeding 
three days
Coverage 
for medical 
treatment 
(Including 
AYUSH) for 
a period 
exceeding 
three days
Coverage 
for medical 
treatment 
(Including 
AYUSH) for 
a period 
exceeding 
three days
Coverage 
for medical 
treatment 
(Including 
AYUSH) for 
a period 
exceeding 
three days
8 Organ Donor Expenses Actual Actual Actual Actual Actual Actual Actual Actual Actual
9 Health Checkup Assure-Individual 
sum Insured(up to) 1,500/- 2,000/- 4,000/- 5,000/- 5,000/- 5,000/- 8,000/- 8,000/- 8,000/-
10 Health Checkup Assure-Floater sum 
Insured (up to) 2,500/- 5,000/- 8,000/- 10,000/- 10,000/- 10,000/- 15,000/- 15,000/- 15,000/-
11 Home care treatment
up to 10% of 
the sum 
insured 
subject to 
maximum of 
Rs.5 lakhs 
in a policy 
year
up to 10% of 
the sum 
insured 
subject to 
maximum of 
Rs.5 lakhs 
in a policy 
year
up to 10% of 
the sum 
insured 
subject to 
maximum of 
Rs.5 lakhs 
in a policy 
year
up to 10% of 
the sum 
insured 
subject to 
maximum of 
Rs.5 lakhs 
in a policy 
year
up to 10% of 
the sum 
insured 
subject to 
maximum of 
Rs.5 lakhs 
in a policy 
year
up to 10% of 
the sum 
insured 
subject to 
maximum of 
Rs.5 lakhs 
in a policy 
year
up to 10% of 
the sum 
insured 
subject to 
maximum of 
Rs.5 lakhs 
in a policy 
year
up to 10% of 
the sum 
insured 
subject to 
maximum of 
Rs.5 lakhs 
in a policy 
year
up to 10% of 
the sum 
insured 
subject to 
maximum of 
Rs.5 lakhs 
in a policy 
year
12 Delivery Charges - Normal Delivery 
and Caesarean Section
up-to 10% 
of the Sum 
Insured is 
payable
up-to 10% 
of the Sum 
Insured is 
payable
up-to 10% 
of the Sum 
Insured is 
payable
up-to 10% 
of the Sum 
Insured is 
payable
up-to 10% 
of the Sum 
Insured is 
payable
up-to 10% 
of the Sum 
Insured is 
payable
up-to 10% 
of the Sum 
Insured is 
payable
up-to 10% 
of the Sum 
Insured is 
payable
up-to 10% 
of the Sum 
Insured is 
payable
13 Waiting Period for Delivery -Normal 
Delivery and Caesarean Section
24 months 
for ﬁrst 
delivery 
from ﬁrst 
inception of 
the policy
24 months 
for ﬁrst 
delivery 
from ﬁrst 
inception of 
the policy
24 months 
for ﬁrst 
delivery 
from ﬁrst 
inception of 
the policy
24 months 
for ﬁrst 
delivery 
from ﬁrst 
inception of 
the policy
24 months 
for ﬁrst 
delivery 
from ﬁrst 
inception of 
the policy
24 months 
for ﬁrst 
delivery 
from ﬁrst 
inception of 
the policy
24 months 
for ﬁrst 
delivery 
from ﬁrst 
inception of 
the policy
24 months 
for ﬁrst 
delivery 
from ﬁrst 
inception of 
the policy
24 months 
for ﬁrst 
delivery 
from ﬁrst 
inception of 
the policy
14 In Utero Fetal Surgery/Intervention
24 months 
waiting 
period
24 months 
waiting 
period
24 months 
waiting 
period
24 months 
waiting 
period
24 months 
waiting 
period
24 months 
waiting 
period
24 months 
waiting 
period
24 months 
waiting 
period
24 months 
waiting 
period
15 Assisted Reproduction 
Treatment(per policy year) 1,00,000/- 2,00,000/- 2,00,000/- 2,00,000/- 2,00,000/- 4,00,000/- 4,00,000/- 4,00,000/- 4,00,000/-
16
Hospitalization expenses for 
treatment of New Born Baby(per 
policy period)
2,00,000/- 2,00,000/- 2,00,000/- 2,00,000/- 2,00,000/- 4,00,000/- 4,00,000/- 4,00,000/- 4,00,000/-
17 Treatment for Chronic Severe 
Refractory Asthma(per policy period)
Up to 10% 
of sum 
insured not 
exceeding 
Rs.5 lakhs 
Up to 10% 
of sum 
insured not 
exceeding 
Rs.5 lakhs 
Up to 10% 
of sum 
insured not 
exceeding 
Rs.5 lakhs 
Up to 10% 
of sum 
insured not 
exceeding 
Rs.5 lakhs 
Up to 10% 
of sum 
insured not 
exceeding 
Rs.5 lakhs 
Up to 10% 
of sum 
insured not 
exceeding 
Rs.5 lakhs 
Up to 10% 
of sum 
insured not 
exceeding 
Rs.5 lakhs 
Up to 10% 
of sum 
insured not 
exceeding 
Rs.5 lakhs 
Up to 10% 
of sum 
insured not 
exceeding 
Rs.5 lakhs 
18 Compassionate Travel Upto
Rs.10,000/- 
Upto
Rs.10,000/- 
Upto
Rs.10,000/- 
Upto
Rs.10,000/- 
Upto
Rs.10,000/- 
Upto
Rs.10,000/- 
Upto
Rs.10,000/- 
Upto
Rs.10,000/- 
Upto
Rs.10,000/- 
19 Repatriation of Mortal Remains (per 
policy period)
Up to 
Rs.15,000/-
Up to 
Rs.15,000/-
Up to 
Rs.15,000/-
Up to 
Rs.15,000/-
Up to 
Rs.15,000/-
Up to 
Rs.15,000/-
Up to 
Rs.15,000/-
Up to 
Rs.15,000/-
Up to 
Rs.15,000/-
20 Treatment in Valuable service 
providers network(per policy period)
1% of Sum 
Insured 
subject to a 
maximum of 
Rs.5,000/- 
1% of Sum 
Insured 
subject to a 
maximum of 
Rs.5,000/- 
1% of Sum 
Insured 
subject to a 
maximum of 
Rs.5,000/- 
1% of Sum 
Insured 
subject to a 
maximum of 
Rs.5,000/- 
1% of Sum 
Insured 
subject to a 
maximum of 
Rs.5,000/- 
1% of Sum 
Insured 
subject to a 
maximum of 
Rs.5,000/- 
1% of Sum 
Insured 
subject to a 
maximum of 
Rs.5,000/- 
1% of Sum 
Insured 
subject to a 
maximum of 
Rs.5,000/- 
1% of Sum 
Insured 
subject to a 
maximum of 
Rs.5,000/- 

--- PAGE 20 ---

20 of 20Unique Identiﬁcation No.: SHAHLIP23017V012223Star Health Assure Insurance Policy POL / SHA / V.1 / 2022
SCHEDULE OF BENEFITS
S.No Sum Insured (INR) 5 lacs 10 lacs 15 lacs 20 lacs 25 lacs 50 lacs 75 lacs 1 Crore 2 Crore
21 Shared accommodation Rs.1,000/- 
per day 
Rs.1,000/- 
per day 
Rs.1,000/- 
per day 
Rs.1,000/- 
per day 
Rs.1,000/- 
per day 
Rs.1,000/- 
per day 
Rs.1,000/- 
per day 
Rs.1,000/- 
per day 
Rs.1,000/- 
per day 
22 AYUSH Treatment Actuals Actuals Actuals Actuals Actuals Actuals Actuals Actuals Actuals
23 Second Medical Opinion Available Available Available Available Available Available Available Available Available
24 Coverage for Modern Treatment Upto sum 
insured
Upto sum 
insured
Upto sum 
insured
Upto sum 
insured
Upto sum 
insured
Upto sum 
insured
Upto sum 
insured
Upto sum 
insured
Upto sum 
insured
25 Cumulative Bonus
25% of sum 
insured for 
each claim 
free year 
subject to a 
maximum 
upto 100% 
of the sum 
insured
25% of sum 
insured for 
each claim 
free year 
subject to a 
maximum 
upto 100% 
of the sum 
insured
25% of sum 
insured for 
each claim 
free year 
subject to a 
maximum 
upto 100% 
of the sum 
insured
25% of sum 
insured for 
each claim 
free year 
subject to a 
maximum 
upto 100% 
of the sum 
insured
25% of sum 
insured for 
each claim 
free year 
subject to a 
maximum 
upto 100% 
of the sum 
insured
25% of sum 
insured for 
each claim 
free year 
subject to a 
maximum 
upto 100% 
of the sum 
insured
25% of sum 
insured for 
each claim 
free year 
subject to a 
maximum 
upto 100% 
of the sum 
insured
25% of sum 
insured for 
each claim 
free year 
subject to a 
maximum 
upto 100% 
of the sum 
insured
25% of sum 
insured for 
each claim 
free year 
subject to a 
maximum 
upto 100% 
of the sum 
insured
26  Automatic Restoration of Sum 
Insured
Each time 
up to 100% 
of Sum 
Insured and 
unlimited 
number of 
times in a 
policy year.
Each time 
up to 100% 
of Sum 
Insured and 
unlimited 
number of 
times in a 
policy year.
Each time 
up to 100% 
of Sum 
Insured and 
unlimited 
number of 
times in a 
policy year.
Each time 
up to 100% 
of Sum 
Insured and 
unlimited 
number of 
times in a 
policy year.
Each time 
up to 100% 
of Sum 
Insured and 
unlimited 
number of 
times in a 
policy year.
Each time 
up to 100% 
of Sum 
Insured and 
unlimited 
number of 
times in a 
policy year.
Each time 
up to 100% 
of Sum 
Insured and 
unlimited 
number of 
times in a 
policy year.
Each time 
up to 100% 
of Sum 
Insured and 
unlimited 
number of 
times in a 
policy year.
Each time 
up to 100% 
of Sum 
Insured and 
unlimited 
number of 
times in a 
policy year.
27 Rehabilitation and Pain 
Management (per policy year)
Up to the 
sub-limit (or) 
maximum 
up to 20% of 
the sum 
insured 
whichever is 
less
Up to the 
sub-limit (or) 
maximum 
up to 20% of 
the sum 
insured 
whichever is 
less
Up to the 
sub-limit (or) 
maximum 
up to 20% of 
the sum 
insured 
whichever is 
less
Up to the 
sub-limit (or) 
maximum 
up to 20% of 
the sum 
insured 
whichever is 
less
Up to the 
sub-limit (or) 
maximum 
up to 20% of 
the sum 
insured 
whichever is 
less
Up to the 
sub-limit (or) 
maximum 
up to 20% of 
the sum 
insured 
whichever is 
less
Up to the 
sub-limit (or) 
maximum 
up to 20% of 
the sum 
insured 
whichever is 
less
Up to the 
sub-limit (or) 
maximum 
up to 20% of 
the sum 
insured 
whichever is 
less
Up to the 
sub-limit (or) 
maximum 
up to 20% of 
the sum 
insured 
whichever is 
less
28 Wellness Program Available Available Available Available Available Available Available Available Available
29 Co-payment
subject to 
co-payment 
of 10% of 
each and 
every claim 
amount
subject to 
co-payment 
of 10% of 
each and 
every claim 
amount
subject to 
co-payment 
of 10% of 
each and 
every claim 
amount
subject to 
co-payment 
of 10% of 
each and 
every claim 
amount
subject to 
co-payment 
of 10% of 
each and 
every claim 
amount
subject to 
co-payment 
of 10% of 
each and 
every claim 
amount
subject to 
co-payment 
of 10% of 
each and 
every claim 
amount
subject to 
co-payment 
of 10% of 
each and 
every claim 
amount
subject to 
co-payment 
of 10% of 
each and 
every claim 
amount
30 Day Care Treatments Actuals Actuals Actuals Actuals Actuals Actuals Actuals Actuals Actuals