--- PAGE 1 ---

1 of 10Unique Identiﬁcation No.: SHAHLIP22027V032122Arogya Sanjeevani Policy, Star Health and Allied Insurance Co Ltd. POL / ASP / V.4 / 2021
STAR HEALTH AND ALLIED INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
Regd. & Corporate Ofﬁce: 1, New Tank Street, Valluvar Kottam High Road, Nungambakkam, 
Chennai - 600 034. « Phone : 044 - 28288800 « Email : support@starhealth.in 
Website : www.starhealth.in « CIN : U66010TN2005PLC056649 « IRDAI Regn. No. : 129      
Kind Attention : Policyholder
Please check whether the details given by you about the insured persons in the proposal form (a copy of which was provided at the time 
of issuance of cover for the ﬁrst time) are incorporated correctly in the policy schedule. If you ﬁnd any discrepancy, please inform us 
within 15 days from the date of receipt of the policy, failing which the details relating to the person/s covered would be taken as correct.
So also the coverage details may also be gone through and in the absence of any communication from you within 15 days from the date 
of receipt of this policy, it would be construed that the policy issued is correct and the claims if any arise under the policy will be dealt 
with based on proposal / policy details. 
Customer Information Sheet - Arogya Sanjeevani Policy, Star Health and Allied Insurance Co Ltd.
Unique Identiﬁcation No.: SHAHLIP22027V032122
S.No
. Title Description Refer to Policy 
Clause Number
1 Product Name Arogya Sanjeevani Policy, Star Health and Allied Insurance Co Ltd.
4.1
2 What am I 
covered
a. Hospitalization expenses- Expenses incurred on hospitalization for minimum period of 24 hours including pre-hospitalization 
expenses for a period of 30 days and post hospitalization expenses for a period of 60 days.
b. Day Care Procedures- Medical expenses for day care procedures. 4.1.1
c. AYUSH Coverage- Expenses incurred on hospitalization under AYUSH Treatment. 4.2
d. Expenses incurred on treatment of cataract. 4.3
e. Expenses incurred on dental treatment and Plastic Surgery: Necessitated due to disease or injury. 
4.1.1
f. Ambulance Charges: Expenses on road Ambulance subject to a maximum of Rs.2000/- per hospitalization.
3
What are the 
Major 
Exclusions in 
the policy
Following is a partial list of the policy exclusions. Please refer to the policy document for the complete list of exclusions:
a. Admission primarily for investigation & evaluation 7.1
b. Admission primarily for rest Cure, rehabilitation and respite care 7.2
c. Expenses related to the surgical treatment of obesity that do not fulﬁll certain conditions 7.3
d. Change-of-Gender treatments 7.4
e. Expenses for cosmetic or plastic surgery 7.5
f. Expenses related to any treatment necessitated due to participation in hazardous or adventure sports 7.6
4 Waiting 
Periods
a. Pre-Existing Diseases will be covered after a waiting period of forty eight (48) months of continuous coverage 6.1
b. Expenses related to the treatment of any illness within 30 days from the ﬁrst policy commencement date shall be excluded 
except claims arising due to an accident. 6.2
c. Speciﬁed surgeries/treatments/diseases are covered after speciﬁc waiting period of 24 months
6.3
d. Speciﬁed surgeries/treatments/diseases are covered after speciﬁc waiting period of 48 months
5 Payment 
basis Payment on indemnity basis (Cashless / Reimbursement) 4.1
6 Loss Sharing
In case of a claim, this policy requires you to share the following costs:
a. Expenses exceeding the following Sub-limits: 
 i. Room Charges(Hospitalization): 
  a. Room Rent - Up to 2% of SI, subject to max of INR 5,000 per day 
  b. ICU charges - Up to 5% of SI subject to max of INR 10,000 per day. 
  c. In case Room/ICU/ICCU rent exceeds the limits speciﬁed the claim shall be subject to the proportionate 
deduction. 
 ii. Cataract — Up to 25% of Sum Insured or Rs.40,000/- whichever is lower. 
 iii. Modern treatment methods and Advancements in technology: Up to 50% of the Sum insured.
4.1
4.3
4.6
b. Each and every claim under the Policy shall be subject to a Copayment of 5% applicable to claim amount admissible and 
payable as per the terms and conditions of the Policy 9.3

--- PAGE 2 ---

2 of 10Unique Identiﬁcation No.: SHAHLIP22027V032122Arogya Sanjeevani Policy, Star Health and Allied Insurance Co Ltd. POL / ASP / V.4 / 2021
S.No. Title Description Refer to Policy 
Clause Number
7 Renewal 
Conditions
The policy shall ordinarily be renewable except on grounds of fraud, moral hazard, misrepresentation by the insured person. 
Renewal shall not be denied on the ground that the insured had made a claim or claims in the preceding policy years. 10.16
8 Renewal 
Beneﬁts
Cumulative bonus: 
a. Increase in the sum insured by 5% in respect of each claim free year subject to a maximum of 50% of SI.
b. In the event of claim the cumulative bonus shall be reduced at the same rate.
5
9 Cancellation
a. The Insured may cancel this Policy by giving 15 days' written notice, and in such an event, the Company shall refund premium on 
short term rates for the unexpired Policy Period as per the rates detailed in the policy terms and conditions. 
b. The Company may cancel the policy at any time on grounds of misrepresentation, non-disclosure of material facts, fraud by the 
Insured Person by giving 15 days' written notice. 
10.10 
10 Claims
a. For Cashless Service: 
(Insurer to provide the details /web link from where Hospital Network details can be obtained) 
9
b. For Reimbursement of Claim : For reimbursement of claims the insured person may submit the necessary documents to 
TPA/Company within the prescribed time limit as speciﬁed hereunder. 
S No Type of Claim Prescribed Time limit
1 Reimbursement of hospitalization, day care and pre 
hospitalization expenses Within thirty days of date of discharge from hospital
2 Reimbursement of post hospitalization expenses Within ﬁfteen days from completion of post hospitalization 
treatment
For details on claim procedure please refer the policy document. 
11
Policy 
servicing 
/Grievances 
/Complaints
Insurer to provide the details of company ofﬁcials. 
a. Details of Grievance redressal ofﬁcer (Insurer to provide the link) 
b. IRDAI Integrated Grievance Management System - https://igms.irda.gov.in/ 
c. Insurance Ombudsman — The contact details of the Insurance Ombudsman ofﬁces have been provided as Annexure-B of 
Policy document.
11
12 Insured's 
Rights
a. Free Look period of 15 days from the date of receipt of the policy shall be applicable at the inception. 10.19
b. Lifelong renewability (except on certain speciﬁc grounds) 10.16
c. Right to migrate from one product to another product of the company (Note: Insurer to provide e-mail and address of the Person 
to be contacted) 10.14
d. Right to port the from one company to another company (Note: Insurer to provide e-mail and address of the Person to be 
contacted) 10.15
e. Change in SI during the policy term or at the time of renewal (Insurer to provide the contact details) 10.21
f. Insurer to specify the norms on TAT for Pre-Auth and Settlement of reimbursement. 9.1
13 Insured's 
Obligations Please disclose all pre-existing disease/s or condition's before buying a policy. Non-disclosure may result in claim not being paid. 
Legal Disclaimer Note: The information must be read in conjunction with the product brochure and policy document. In case of any conﬂict between the CIS and the policy document, 
the terms and conditions mentioned in the policy document shall prevail. 
Beneﬁt Illustration in respect of policies offered on individual and family ﬂoater basis
Age
of the 
Members 
insured
(in yrs)
Coverage opted on individual basis 
covering each member of the 
family separately
(at a single point of time)
Coverage opted on individual basis covering
multiple members of the family under a single policy
(Sum insured is available for each member of the family)
Coverage opted on family ﬂoater basis with overall Sum insured
(Only one sum insured is available for the entire family)
Premium
(Rs.)
Sum Insured 
(Rs.)
Premium
(Rs.)
Discount,
(if any)
Premium
After 
Discount
(Rs.)
Sum Insured 
(Rs.)
Premium or 
consolidated 
premium for 
all members 
of family
(Rs.)
Floater 
Discount,
(if any)
Premium
After
Discount
(Rs.)
Sum Insured 
(Rs.)
Illustration 1
64 16,675 5,00,000 16,675 Nil 16,675 5,00,000 29,500 4,490 25,010 5,00,00058 12,825 5,00,000 12,825 12,825 5,00,000
Total Premium for all members of the family is 
Rs.29,500/-, when each member is 
covered separately.
Sum insured available for each individual is 
Rs.5,00,000/-
Total Premium for all members of the family is
Rs.29,500/-, when they are covered under a
single policy.
Sum insured available for each family member is 
Rs.5,00,000/-
Total Premium when policy is opted
on ﬂoater basis is Rs.25,010/-,
Sum insured of Rs.5,00,000/-
is available for the entire family (2A)
Illustration 2
47 7,590 5,00,000 7,590
Nil
7,590 5,00,000
17,180 3,795 13,385 5,00,00044 5,420 5,00,000 5,420 5,420 5,00,000
19 4,170 5,00,000 4,170 4,170 5,00,000
Total Premium for all members of the family is 
Rs.17,180/-, when each member is 
covered separately.
Sum insured available for each individual is
Rs.5,00,000/-
Total Premium for all members of the family is
Rs.17,180/-, when they are covered under a
single policy.
Sum insured available for each family member is 
Rs.5,00,000/-
Total Premium when policy is opted
on ﬂoater basis is Rs.13,385/-
Sum insured of Rs.5,00,000/-
is available for the entire family (2A+1C)
Note: Premium rates speciﬁed in the above illustration are standard premium rates without considering any loading. Also, the premium rates are exclusive of taxes applicable.
A-Adult | C-Child

--- PAGE 3 ---

3 of 10Unique Identiﬁcation No.: SHAHLIP22027V032122Arogya Sanjeevani Policy, Star Health and Allied Insurance Co Ltd. POL / ASP / V.4 / 2021
AROGYA SANJEEVANI POLICY, STAR HEALTH AND ALLIED INSURANCE CO LTD.
Unique Identiﬁcation No.: SHAHLIP22027V032122
1. PREAMBLE                                                                                             
This Policy is a contract of insurance issued by [name of the Company] (hereinafter called 
the `Company') to the proposer mentioned in the schedule (hereinafter called the 'Insured') 
to cover the person(s) named in the schedule (hereinafter called the 'Insured Persons'). 
The policy is based on the statements and declaration provided in the proposal Form by the 
proposer and is subject to receipt of the requisite premium.
2. OPERATIVE CLAUSE                                                                                             
If during the policy period one or more Insured Person (s) is required to be hospitalized for 
treatment of an Illness or Injury at a Hospital/ Day Care Centre, following Medical Advice of 
a duly qualiﬁed Medical Practitioner, the Company shall indemnify Medically necessary, 
expenses towards the Coverage mentioned in the policy schedule.
Provided further that, any amount payable under the policy shall be subject to the terms of 
coverage (including any co-pay, sub limits), exclusions, conditions and deﬁnitions 
contained herein. Maximum liability of the Company under all such Claims during each 
Policy Year shall be the Sum Insured (Individual or Floater) opted and Cumulative Bonus (if 
any) speciﬁed in the Schedule.
3. DEFINITIONS                                                                                             
The terms deﬁned below and at other junctures in the Policy have the meanings ascribed to 
them wherever they appear in this Policy and, where, the context so requires, references to 
the singular include references to the plural; references to the male includes the female 
and references to any statutory enactment includes subsequent changes to the same.
3.1. Accident means a sudden, unforeseen and involuntary event caused by external, 
visible and violent means.
3.2. Age means age of the Insured person on last birthday as on date of 
commencement of the Policy.
3.3. Any One Illness means continuous period of illness and it includes relapse within 
forty ﬁve days from the date of last consultation with the hospital where treatment 
has been taken.
3.4. AYUSH Treatment refers to hospitalisation treatments given under Ayurveda, 
Yoga and Naturopathy, Unani, Siddha and Homeopathy systems.
3.5. An AYUSH Hospital is a healthcare facility wherein medical/surgical/para-surgical 
treatment procedures and interventions are carried out by AYUSH Medical 
Practitioner(s) comprising of any of the following:
a. Central or State Government AYUSH Hospital or
b. Teaching hospital attached to AYUSH College recognized by the Central 
Government/Central Council of Indian Medicine/Central Council for 
Homeopathy; or
c. AYUSH Hospital, standalone or co-located with in-patient healthcare facility of 
any recognized system of medicine, registered with the local authorities, 
wherever applicable, and is under the supervision of a qualiﬁed registered 
AYUSH Medical Practitioner and must comply with all the following criterion:
i. Having at least 5 in-patient beds;
ii. Having qualiﬁed AYUSH Medical Practitioner in charge round the clock;
iii. Having dedicated AYUSH therapy sections as required and/or has 
equipped operation theatre where surgical procedures are to be carried out;
iv. Maintaining daily records of the patients and making them accessible to 
the insurance company's authorized representative.
3.6. AYUSH Day Care Centre means and includes Community Health Centre (CHC), 
Primary Health Centre (PHC), Dispensary, Clinic, Polyclinic or any such health 
centre which is registered with the local authorities, wherever applicable and 
having facilities for carrying out treatment procedures and medical or surgical/para-
surgical interventions or both under the supervision of registered AYUSH Medical 
Practitioner (s) on day care basis without in-patient services and must comply with 
all the following criterion:
i. Having qualiﬁed registered AYUSH Medical Practitioner(s) in charge;
ii. Having dedicated AYUSH therapy sections as required and/or has equipped 
operation theatre where surgical procedures are to be carried out;
iii. Maintaining daily records of the patients and making them accessible
to the insurance company's authorized representative.
3.7. Break in Policy means the period of gap that occurs at the end of the existing policy 
term, when the premium due for renewal on a given policy is not paid on or before 
the premium renewal date or within 30 days thereof
3.8. Cashless Facility means a facility extended by the insurer to the insured where the 
payments, of the costs of treatment undergone by the insured person in 
accordance with the Policy terms and conditions, are directly made to the network 
provider by the insurer to the extent pre-authorization is approved.
3.9. Condition Precedent means a Policy term or condition upon which the Company's 
liability under the Policy is conditional upon.
3.10. Congenital Anomaly refers to a condition(s) which is present since birth, and 
which is abnormal with reference to form, structure or position.
a) Internal Congenital Anomaly: Congenital anomaly which is not in the visible 
and accessible parts of the body.
b) External Congenital Anomaly: Congenital anomaly which is in the visible 
and accessible parts of the body.
3.11. Co-payment means a cost sharing requirement under a health insurance policy 
that provides that the policyholder/insured will bear a speciﬁed percentage of the 
admissible claims amount. A co-payment does not reduce the Sum Insured.
3.12. Cumulative Bonus means any increase or addition in the Sum Insured granted by 
the insurer without an associated increase in premium.
3.13. Day Care Centre means any institution established for day care treatment of 
disease/ injuries or a medical setup within a hospital and which has been registered 
with the local authorities,wherever applicable, and is under the supervision of a 
registered and qualiﬁed medical practitioner AND must comply with all minimum 
criteria as under:
i. has qualiﬁed nursing staff under its employment;
ii. has qualiﬁed medical practitioner (s) in charge; 
iii. has a fully equipped operation theatre of its own where surgical procedures 
are carried out
iv. maintains daily records of patients and shall make these accessible to the 
Company's authorized personnel.
3.14. Day Care Treatment means medical treatment, and/or surgical procedure which is;
i. undertaken under general or local anesthesia in a hospital/day care centre in 
less than twenty four hours because of technological advancement, and
ii. which would have otherwise required a hospitalisation of more than twenty 
four hours. Treatment normally taken on an out-patient basis is not included in 
the scope of this deﬁnition.
3.15. Dental Treatment means a treatment carried out by a dental practitioner including 
examinations, ﬁllings (where appropriate), crowns, extractions and surgery.
3.16. Disclosure to information norm: The policy shall be void and all premium paid 
thereon shall be forfeited to the Company in the event of misrepresentation, mis-
description or non-disclosure of any material fact.
3.17. Emergency Care: Emergency care means management for an illness or injury 
which results in symptoms which occur suddenly and unexpectedly, and requires 
immediate care by a medical practitioner to prevent death or serious long term 
impairment of the insured person's health.
3.18. Family means, the Family that consists of the proposer and any one or more of the 
family members as mentioned below:
i. legally wedded spouse.
ii. Parents and Parents-in-law.
iii. dependent Children (i.e. natural or legally adopted) between the age 3 months 
to 25 years. If the child above 18 years of age is ﬁnancially independent, he or 
she shall be ineligible for coverage in the subsequent renewals.
3.19. Grace Period means speciﬁed period of time immediately following the premium 
due date during which a payment can be made to renew or continue the Policy in 
force without loss of continuity beneﬁts such as waiting period and coverage of pre-
existing diseases. Coverage is not available for the period for which no premium is 
received.
3.20. Hospital means any institution established for in-patient care and day care 
treatment of disease/ injuries and which has been registered as a hospital with the 
local authorities under the Clinical Establishments (Registration and Regulation) 
Act, 2010 or under the enactments speciﬁed under Schedule of Section 56(1) of the 
said Act, OR complies with all minimum criteria as under:
i. has qualiﬁed nursing staff under its employment round the clock;
ii. has at least ten inpatient beds, in those towns having a population of less than 
ten lakhs and ﬁfteen inpatient beds in all other places;
iii. has qualiﬁed medical practitioner (s) in charge round the clock;
iv. has a fully equipped operation theatre of its own where surgical procedures 
are carried out
v. maintains daily records of patients and shall make these accessible to the 
Company's authorized personnel.
3.21. Hospitalisation means admission in a hospital for a minimum period of twenty four 
(24) consecutive 'In-patient care' hours except for speciﬁed procedures/ 
treatments, where such admission could be for a period of less than twenty four (24) 
consecutive hours.
STAR HEALTH AND ALLIED INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
Regd. & Corporate Ofﬁce: 1, New Tank Street, Valluvar Kottam High Road, Nungambakkam, 
Chennai - 600 034. « Phone : 044 - 28288800 « Email : support@starhealth.in 
Website : www.starhealth.in « CIN : U66010TN2005PLC056649 « IRDAI Regn. No. : 129      

--- PAGE 4 ---

4 of 10Unique Identiﬁcation No.: SHAHLIP22027V032122Arogya Sanjeevani Policy, Star Health and Allied Insurance Co Ltd. POL / ASP / V.4 / 2021
3.22. Illness means a sickness or a disease or pathological condition leading to the 
impairment of normal physiological function which manifests itself during the policy 
period and requires medical treatment.
i. Acute Condition means a disease, illness or injury that is likely to response 
quickly to treatment which aims to return the person to his or her state of health 
immediately before suffering the disease/ illness/ injury which leads to full 
recovery.
ii. Chronic Condition means a disease, illness, or injury that has one or more of 
the following characteristics
a) it needs ongoing or long-term monitoring through consultations, 
examinations, check-ups, and / or tests
b) it needs ongoing or long-term control or relief of symptoms
c) it requires rehabilitation for the patient or for the patient to be special 
trained to cope with it
d) it continues indeﬁnitely
e) it recurs or is likely to recur
3.23. Injury means accidental physical bodily harm excluding illness or disease solely 
and directly caused by external, violent and visible and evident means which is 
veriﬁed and certiﬁed by a medical practitioner.
3.24. In-Patient Care means treatment for which the insured person has to stay in a 
hospital for more than 24 hours for a covered event.
3.25. Insured Person means person(s) named in the schedule of the Policy.
3.26. Intensive Care Unit means an identiﬁed section, ward or wing of a hospital which is 
under the constant supervision of a dedicated medical practitioner(s), and which is 
specially equipped for the continuous monitoring and treatment of patients who are 
in a critical condition, or require life support facilities and where the level of care and 
supervision is considerably more sophisticated and intensive than in the ordinary 
and other wards.
3.27. ICU (Intensive Care Unit) Charges means the amount charged by a Hospital 
towards ICU expenses on a per day basis which shall include the expenses for ICU 
bed, general medical support services provided to any ICU patient including 
monitoring devices, critical care nursing and intensivist charges.
3.28. Medical Advice means any consultation or advice from a Medical Practitioner 
including the issue of any prescription or follow up prescription.
3.29. Medical Expenses means those expenses that an insured person has necessarily 
and actually incurred for medical treatment on account of illness or accident on the 
advice of a medical practitioner, as long as these are no more than would have been 
payable if the insured person had not been insured and no more than other hospitals 
or doctors in the same locality would have charged for the same medical treatment.
3.30. Medical Practitioner means a person who holds a valid registration from the 
Medical Council of any state or Medical Council of India or Council for Indian 
Medicine or for Homeopathy set up by the Government of India or a State 
Government and is thereby entitled to practice medicine within its jurisdiction; and 
is acting within the scope and jurisdiction of the licence.
3.31. Medically Necessary Treatment means any treatment, tests, medication, or stay 
in hospital or part of a stay in hospital which
i. is required for the medical management of illness or injury suffered by the 
insured;
ii. must not exceed the level of care necessary to provide safe, adequate and 
appropriate medical care in scope, duration, or intensity;
iii. must have been prescribed by a medical practitioner;
iv. must conform to the professional standards widely accepted in international 
medical practice or by the medical community In India.
3.32. Migration means, the right accorded to health insurance policyholders (including 
all members under family cover and members of group Health insurance policy), to 
transfer the credit gained for pre-existing conditions and time bound exclusions, 
with the same insurer.
3.33. Network Provider means hospitals enlisted by insurer, TPA or jointly by an insurer 
and TPA to provide medical services to an insured by a cashless facility.
3.34. Non- Network Provider means any hospital that is not part of the network,
3.35. Notiﬁcation of Claim means the process of intimating a claim to the Insurer or TPA 
through any of the recognized modes of communication.
3.36. Out-Patient (OPD) Treatment means treatment in which the insured visits a clinic / 
hospital or associated facility like a consultation room for diagnosis and treatment 
based on the advice of a medical practitioner. The insured is not admitted as a day 
care or in-patient.
3.37. Pre-Existing Disease (PED): Pre existing disease means any condition, ailment, 
injury or disease
a) That is/are diagnosed by a physician within 48 months prior to the effective 
date of the policy issued by the insurer or
b) For which medical advice or treatment was recommended by, or received 
from, a physician within 48 months prior to the effective date of the policy or its 
reinstatement.
c) A condition for which any symptoms and or signs if presented and have 
resulted within three months of the issuance of the policy in a diagnostic illness 
or medical condition.
3.38. Pre-hospitalisation Medical Expenses means medical expenses incurred during the 
period of 30days preceding the hospitalisation of the Insured Person, provided that:
i. Such Medical Expenses are incurred for the same condition for which the 
Insured Person's Hospitalisation was required, and
ii. The In-patient Hospitalisation claim for such Hospitalisation is admissible by 
the Insurance Company.
3.39. Post-hospitalisation Medical Expenses means medical expenses incurred 
during the period of 60days immediately after the insured person is discharged 
from the hospital provided that:
i. Such Medical Expenses are for the same condition for which the insured 
person's hospitalisation was required, and
ii. The inpatient hospitalisation claim for such hospitalisation is admissible by the 
Insurance Company.
3.40. Policy means these Policy wordings, the Policy Schedule and any applicable 
endorsements or extensions attaching to or forming part thereof. The Policy 
contains details of the extent of cover available to the Insured person, what is 
excluded from the cover and the terms & conditions on which the Policy is issued to 
the Insured person
3.41. Policy period means period of one policy year as mentioned in the schedule for 
which the Policy is issued
3.42. Policy Schedule means the Policy Schedule attached to and forming part of Policy
3.43. Policy year means a period of twelve months beginning from the date of 
commencement of the policy period and ending on the last day of such twelve-month 
period. For the purpose of subsequent years, policy year shall mean a period of twelve 
months commencing from the end of the previous policy year and lapsing on the last 
day of such twelve-month period, till the policy period, as mentioned in the schedule
3.44. Portability means the right accorded to an individual health insurance policyholder 
(includingall members under family cover), to transfer the credit gained for pre-
existing conditions and time bound exclusions, from one insurer to another insurer.
3.45. Qualiﬁed Nurse means a person who holds a valid registration from the Nursing 
Council of India or the Nursing Council of any state in India.
3.46. Renewal: Renewal means the terms on which the contract of insurance can be 
renewed on mutual consent with a provision of grace period for treating the renewal 
continuous for the purpose of gaining credit for pre-existing diseases, time-bound 
exclusions and for all waiting periods.
3.47. Room Rent means the amount charged by a hospital towards Room and Boarding 
expenses and shall include the associated medical expenses.
3.48. Sub-limit means a cost sharing requirement under a health insurance policy in which 
an insurer would not be liable to pay any amount in excess of the pre-deﬁned limit
3.49. Sum Insured means the pre-deﬁned limit speciﬁed in the Policy Schedule. Sum 
Insured and Cumulative Bonus represents the maximum, total and cumulative 
liability for any and all claims made under the Policy, in respect of that Insured Person 
(on Individual basis) or all Insured Persons (on Floater basis) during the Policy Year.
3.50. Surgery or Surgical Procedure means manual and / or operative procedure (s) 
required for treatment of an illness or injury, correction of deformities and defects, 
diagnosis and cure of diseases, relief of suffering and prolongation of life, 
performed in a hospital or day care centre by a medical practitioner.
3.51. Third Party Administrator (TPA) means a Company registered with the Authority, 
and engaged by an insurer, for a fee or by whatever name called and as may be 
mentioned in the health services agreement, for providing health services.
3.52. Waiting Period means a period from the inception of this Policy during which 
speciﬁed diseases/treatments are not covered. On completion of the period, 
diseases/treatments shall be covered provided the Policy has been continuously 
renewed without any break.
4. COVERAGE                                                                                             
The covers listed below are in-built Policy beneﬁts and shall be available to all Insured 
Persons in accordance with the procedures set out in this Policy.
4.1. Hospitalization: The Company shall indemnify medical expenses incurred for 
Hospitalization of the Insured Person during the Policy year, up to the Sum Insured 
and Cumulative Bonus speciﬁed in the policy schedule, for,
i. Room Rent, Boarding, Nursing Expenses as provided by the Hospital / Nursing 
Home up to 2% of the sum insured subject to maximum of Rs.5000/-, per day.
ii. Intensive Care Unit (ICU) / Intensive Cardiac Care Unit (ICCU) expenses up to 
5% of sum insured subject to maximum of Rs.10,000/- per day.
iii. Surgeon, Anesthetist, Medical Practitioner, Consultants, Specialist Fees 
whether paid directly to the treating doctor / surgeon or to the hospital
iv. Anesthesia, blood, oxygen, operation theatre charges, surgical appliances, 
medicines and drugs, costs towards diagnostics, diagnostic imaging 
modalities and such similar other expenses.
4.1 .1. Other expenses 
i. Expenses incurred on treatment of cataract subject to the sub limits
ii. Dental treatment, necessitated due to disease or injury
iii. Plastic surgery necessitated due to disease or injury
iv. All the day care treatments
v. Expenses incurred on Road Ambulance subject to a maximum of Rs.2000/- 
per hospitalisation.
Note:
1. Expenses of Hospitalization for a minimum period of 24 consecutive 
hours only shall be admissible. However, the time limit shall not apply in 
respect of Day Care Treatment
2. In case of admission to a room/ICU/ICCU at rates exceeding the 
aforesaid limits, the reimbursement/payment of all other expenses 
incurred at the Hospital, with the exception of cost of medicines, shall be 
effected in the same proportion as the admissible rate per day bears to 
the actual rate per day of Room Rent/ICU/ICCU charges.

--- PAGE 5 ---

5 of 10Unique Identiﬁcation No.: SHAHLIP22027V032122Arogya Sanjeevani Policy, Star Health and Allied Insurance Co Ltd. POL / ASP / V.4 / 2021
4.2. AYUSH Treatment: The Company shall indemnify medical expenses incurred for 
inpatient care treatment under Ayurveda,Yoga and Naturopathy, Unani, Siddha 
and Homeopathy systems of medicines during each Policy Year up to the limit of 
sum insured as speciﬁed in the policy schedule in any AYUSH Hospital.
4.3. Cataract Treatment: The Company shall indemnify medical expenses incurred for 
treatment of Cataract, subject to a limit of 25% of Sum Insured orRs.40,000/-, 
whichever is lower, per each eye in one policy year.
4.4. Pre Hospitalization: The company shall indemnify pre-hospitalization medical 
expenses incurred, related to an admissible hospitalization requiring inpatient care, 
for a ﬁxed period of 30 days prior to the date of admissible hospitalization covered 
under the policy.
4.5. Post Hospitalisation: The company shall indemnify post hospitalization medical 
expenses incurred, related to an admissible hospitalization requiring inpatient care, 
for a ﬁxed period of 60 days from the date of discharge from the hospital, following 
an admissible hospitalization covered under the policy.
4.6. The following procedures will be covered (wherever medically indicated) either as 
in patient or as part of day care treatment in a hospital up to 50% of Sum Insured, 
speciﬁed in the policy schedule, during the policy period:
A. Uterine Artery Embolization and HIFU (High intensity focused ultrasound)
B. Balloon Sinuplasty
C. Deep Brain stimulation
D. Oral chemotherapy
E. lmmunotherapy- Monoclonal Antibody to be given as injection
F. lntra vitreal injections
G. Robotic surgeries
H. Stereotactic radio surgeries
I. BronchicalThermoplasty
J. Vaporisation of the prostrate (Green laser treatment or holmium laser treatment)
K. ION M - (antra Operative Neuro Monitoring)
L. Stern cell therapy: Hematopoietic stem cells for bone marrow transplant for 
haematological conditions
4.7. The expenses that are not covered in this policy are placed under List-I of 
Annexure-A. The list of expenses that are to be subsumed into room charges, or 
procedure charges or costs of treatment are placed under List-II,List-III and List-IV 
of Annexure-A respectively.
5. CUMULATIVE BONUS (CB)                                                                                             
Cumulative Bonus will be increased by 5% in respect of each claim free policy year (where 
no claims are reported), provided the policy is renewed with the company without a break 
subject to maximum of 50% of the sum insured under the current policy year. If a claim is 
made in any particular year, the cumulative bonus accrued shall be reduced at the same 
rate at which it has accrued. However, sum insured will be maintained and will not be 
reduced in the policy year.
Notes
i. In case where the policy is on individual basis, the CB shall be added and available 
individually to the insured person if no claim has been reported. CB shall reduce 
only in case of claim from the same Insured Person.
ii. In case where the policy is on ﬂoater basis, the CB shall be added and available to 
the family on ﬂoater basis, provided no claim has been reported from any member 
of the family. CB shall reduce in case of claim from any of the Insured Persons.
iii. CB shall be available only if the Policy is renewed/ premium paid within the Grace 
Period.
iv. If the Insured Persons in the expiring policy are covered on an individual basis as 
speciﬁed in the Policy Schedule and there is an accumulated CB for such Insured 
Person under the expiring policy, and such expiring policy has been Renewed on a 
ﬂoater policy basis as speciﬁed in the Policy Schedule then the CB to be carried 
forward for credit in such Renewed Policy shall be the one that is applicable to the 
lowest among all the Insured Persons
v. In case of ﬂoater policies where Insured Persons Renew their expiring policy by 
splitting the Sum Insured in to two or more ﬂoater policies/individual policies or in 
cases where the policy is split due to the child attaining the age of 25 years, the CB 
of the expiring policy shall be apportioned to such Renewed Policies in the 
proportion of the Sum Insured of each Renewed Policy
vi. If the Sum Insured has been reduced at the time of Renewal, the applicable CB 
shall be reduced in the same proportion to the Sum Insured in current Policy.
vii. If the Sum Insured under the Policy has been increased at the time of Renewal the 
CB shall be calculated on the Sum Insured of the last completed Policy Year.
viii. If a claim is made in the expiring Policy Year, and is notiﬁed to Us after the 
acceptance of Renewal premium any awarded CB shall be withdrawn
6. WAITING PERIOD                                                                                             
The Company shall not be liable to make any payment under the policy in connection with 
or in respect of following expenses till the expiry of waiting period mentioned below:
6.1. Pre-Existing Diseases(Code- Excl01)
a) Expenses related to the treatment of a pre-existing Disease (PED) and its 
direct complications shall be excluded until the expiry of 48 months of 
continuous coverage after the date of inception of the ﬁrst policy with us.
b) In case of enhancement of sum insured the exclusion shall apply afresh to the 
extent of sum insured increase.
c) If the Insured Person is continuously covered without any break as deﬁned 
under the portability norms of the extant IRDAI (Health Insurance) 
Regulations then waiting period for the same would be reduced to the extent of 
prior coverage.
d) Coverage under the policy after the expiry of 48 months for any pre-existing 
disease is subject to the same being declared at the time of application and 
accepted by us.
6.2. First Thirty Days Waiting Period(Code- Excl03)
i. Expenses related to the treatment of any illness within 30 days from the ﬁrst 
policy commencement date shall be excluded except claims arising due to an 
accident, provided the same are covered.
ii. This exclusion shall not, however, apply if the Insured Person has Continuous 
Coverage for more than twelve months.
iii. The within referred waiting period is made applicable to the enhanced sum 
insured in the event of granting higher sum insured subsequently.
6.3. Speciﬁc Waiting Period: (Code- Excl02)
a) Expenses related to the treatment of the following listed conditions, 
surgeries/treatments shall be excluded until the expiry of 24/48 months of 
continuous coverage, as may be the case after the date of inception of the ﬁrst 
policy with the insurer. This exclusion shall not be applicable for claims arising 
due to an accident.
b) In case of enhancement of sum insured the exclusion shall apply afresh to the 
extent of sum insured increase.
c) If any of the speciﬁed disease/procedure falls under the waiting period speciﬁed .
for pre-existing diseases, then the longer of the two waiting periods shall apply.
d) The waiting period for listed conditions shall apply even if contracted after the 
policy or declared and accepted without a speciﬁc exclusion.
e) If the Insured Person is continuously covered without any break as deﬁned 
under the applicable norms on portability stipulated by IRDAI, then waiting 
period for the same would be reduced to the extent of prior coverage.
24 Months waiting period
01. Benign ENT disorders
02. Tonsillectomy
03. Adenoidectomy
04. Mastoidectomy
05. Tympanoplasty
06. Hysterectomy
07. All internal and external benign tumours, cysts, polyps of any kind, 
including benign breast lumps
08. Benign prostate hypertrophy
09. Cataract and age related eye ailments
10. Gastric/ Duodenal Ulcer
11. Gout and Rheumatism
12. Hernia of all types
13. Hydrocele
14. Non Infective Arthritis
15. Piles, Fissures and Fistula in anus
16. Pilonidal sinus, Sinusitis and related disorders
17. Prolapse inter Vertebral Disc and Spinal Diseases unless arising from accident
18. Calculi in urinary system,Gall Bladder and Bile duct, excluding malignancy.
19. Varicose Veins and Varicose Ulcers
20. InternalCongenitalAnomalies
48 Months waiting period
1. Treatment for joint replacement unless arising from accident
2. Age-related Osteoarthritis & Osteoporosis
7. EXCLUSIONS                                                                                             
The Company shall not be liable to make any payment under the policy, in respect of any 
expenses incurred in connection with or in respect of:
7.1 Investigation & Evaluation - (Code - Excl 04)
a) Expenses related to any admission primarily for diagnostics and evaluation 
purposes.
b) Any diagnostic expenses which are not related or not incidental to the current 
diagnosis and treatment
7.2 Rest Cure, rehabilitation and respite care - (Code - Excl 05)
a) Expenses related to any admission primarily for enforced bed rest and not for 
receiving treatment.This also includes;
i Custodial care either at home or in a nursing facility for personal care such 
as help with activities of daily living such as bathing, dressing, moving 
around either by skilled nurses or assistant or non-skilled persons.
ii. Any services for people who are terminally ill to address physical, social, 
emotional and spiritual needs.
7.3 Obesity/ Weight Control - (Code - Excl 06): Expenses related to the surgical 
treatment of obesity that does not fulﬁl all the below conditions:
1) Surgery to be conducted is upon the advice of the Doctor
2) The surgery/Procedure conducted should be supported by clinical protocols
3) The member has to be 18 years of age or older and
4) Body Mass Index (BMI);
a) greater than or equal to 40 or
b) greater than or equal to 35 in conjunction with any of the following severe 
co-morbidities following failure of less invasive methods of weight loss:
i. Obesity-related cardiomyopathy
ii. Coronary heart disease
iii. Severe Sleep Apnea
iv. Uncontrolled Type2 Diabetes

--- PAGE 6 ---

6 of 10Unique Identiﬁcation No.: SHAHLIP22027V032122Arogya Sanjeevani Policy, Star Health and Allied Insurance Co Ltd. POL / ASP / V.4 / 2021
7.4 Change-of-Gender treatments - (Code - Excl 07): Expenses related to any 
treatment, including surgical management, to change characteristics of the body to 
those of the opposite sex.
7.5 Cosmetic or plastic Surgery - (Code - Excl 08): Expenses for cosmetic or plastic 
surgery or any treatment to change appearance unless for reconstruction following 
an Accident, Burn(s) or Cancer or as part of medically necessary treatment to 
remove a direct and immediate health risk to the insured. For this to be considered a 
medical necessity, it must be certiﬁed by the attending Medical Practitioner.
7.6 Hazardous or Adventure sports - (Code - Excl 09): Expenses related to any 
treatment necessitated due to participation as a professional in hazardous or 
adventure sports, including but not limited to, Para jumping, rock climbing, 
mountaineering, rafting, motor racing, horse racing or scuba diving, hand gliding, 
sky diving, deep-sea diving.
7.7 Breach of law - (Code - Excl 10): Expenses for treatment directly arising from or 
consequent upon any Insured Person committing or attempting to commit a breach 
of law with crimina.1 intent.
7.8 Excluded Providers - (Code - Excl 11): Expenses incurred towards treatment in 
any hospital or by any Medical Practitioner or any other provider speciﬁcally 
excluded by the Insurer and disclosed in its website / notiﬁed to the policyholders are 
not admissible. However, in case of life threatening situations following an accident, 
expenses up to the stage of stabilization are payable but not the complete claim.
7.9 Treatment for, Alcoholism, drug or substance abuse or any addictive condition and 
consequences thereof - (Code - Excl 12)
7.10 Treatments received in health hydros, nature cure clinics, spas or similar 
establishments or private beds registered as a nursing home attached to such 
establishments or where admission is arranged wholly or partly for domestic 
reasons - (Code - Excl 13)
7.11 Dietary supplements and substances that can be purchased without prescription, 
including but not limited to Vitamins, minerals and organic substances unless 
prescribed by a medical practitioner as part of hospitalization claim or day care 
procedure - (Code - Excl 14)
7.12 Refractive Error - (Code - Excl 15): Expenses related to the treatment for 
correction of eye sight due to refractive error less than 7.5 d ioptres.
7.13 Unproven Treatments - (Code- Excl 16): Expenses related to any unproven 
treatment, services and supplies for or in connection with any treatment. Unproven 
treatments are treatments, procedures or supplies that lack signiﬁcant medical 
documentation to support their effectiveness.
7.14 Sterility and Infertility - (Code - Excl 17): Expenses related to sterility and 
infertility. This includes:
(i) Any type of sterilization
(ii) Assisted Reproduction services including artiﬁcial insemination and 
advanced reproductive technologies such as 1VF, Z1FT, GIFT, ICS1
(iii) Gestational Surrogacy
(iv) Reversal of sterilization
7.15 Maternity Expenses - (Code - Excl 18):
i. Medical treatment expenses traceable to childbirth (including complicated 
deliveries and caesarean sections incurred during hospitalization) except 
ectopic pregnancy
ii. expenses towards miscarriage (unless due to an accident) and lawful medical 
termination of pregnancy during the policy period
7.16 War (whether declared or not) and war like occurrence or invasion, acts of foreign 
enemies, hostilities, civil war, rebellion, revolutions, insurrections, mutiny, military 
or usurped power, seizure, capture, arrest, restraints and detainment of all kinds.
7.17 Nuclear, chemical or biological attack or weapons, contributed to, caused by, 
resulting from or from any other cause or event contributing concurrently or in any 
other sequence to the loss, claim or expense. For the purpose of this exclusion;
a) Nuclear attack or weapons means the use of any nuclear weapon or device or 
waste or combustion of nuclear fuel or the emission, discharge, dispersal, 
release or escape of ﬁssile/ fusion material emitting a level of radioactivity 
capable of causing any Illness, incapacitating disablement or death.
b) Chemical attack or weapons means the emission, discharge, dispersal, 
release or escape of any solid, liquid or gaseous chemical compound which, 
when suitably distributed, is capable of causing any Illness, incapacitating 
disablement or death.
c) Biological attack or weapons means the emission, discharge, dispersal, 
release or escape of any pathogenic (disease producing) micro-organisms -
and/or  biologically produced toxins (including genetically modiﬁed organisms 
and chemically synthesized toxins) which are capable of causing any Illness, 
incapacitating disablement or death.
7.18 Any expenses incurred on Domiciliary Hospitalization and OPD treatment
7.19 Treatment taken outside the geographical limits of India
7.20 In respect of the existing diseases, disclosed by the insured and mentioned in the 
policy schedule(based on insured's consent), policyholder is not entitled to get the 
coverage for speciﬁed ICD codes.
8. MORATORIUM PERIOD                                                                                             
After completion of eight continuous years under this policy no look back would be applied. 
This period of eight years is called as moratorium period. The moratorium would be applicable 
for the sums insured of the ﬁrst policy and subsequently completion of eight continuous years 
would be applicable from date of enhancement of sums insured only on the enhanced limits. 
After the expiry of Moratorium Period no claim under this policy shall be contestable except for 
proven fraud and permanent exclusions speciﬁed in the policy contract. The policies would 
however be subject to all limits, sub limits, co-payments as per the policy.
9. CLAIM PROCEDURE                                                                                             
I. Procedure for Cashless claims:
(i) Treatment may be taken in a network provider and is subject to pre authorization 
by the Company or its authorized TPA.
(ii) Cashless request form available with the network provider and TPA shall be 
completed and sent to the Company/TPA for authorization.
(iii) The Company/ TPA upon getting cashless request form and related medical 
information from the insured person/ network provider will issue pre-
authorization letter to the hospital after veriﬁcation.
(iv) At the time of discharge, the insured person has to verify and sign the discharge 
papers, pay for non-medical and inadmissible expenses.
(v) The Company / TPA reserves the right to deny pre-authorization in case the 
insured person is unable to provide the relevant medical details. (vi)In case of 
denial of cashless access, the insured person may obtain the treatment as per 
treating doctor's advice and submit the claim documents to the Company / 
TPA for reimbursement.
II. Procedure for reimbursement of claims: For reimbursement of claims the insured 
person may submit the necessary documents to TPA (if applicable)/Company within 
the prescribed time limit as speciﬁed hereunder;
9.1 Notiﬁcation of Claim: Notice with full particulars shall be sent to the Company/TPA 
(if applicable) as under;
i. Within24hours from the date of emergency hospitalization required or before 
the Insured Person's discharge from Hospital, whichever is earlier.
ii. At least 48 hours prior to admission in Hospital in case of a planned Hospitalization.
9.2 Documents to be submitted: The reimbursement claim is to be supported with the 
following documents and submitted within the prescribed time limit.
i. Duly Completed claim form
ii. Photo Identity proof of the patient
iii. Medical practitioner's prescription advising admission
iv. Original bills with itemized break-up
v. Payment receipts
vi. Discharge summary including complete medical history of the patient along 
with other details.
vii Investigation/ Diagnostic test reports etc. supported by the prescription from 
attending medical practitioner
viii OT notes or Surgeon's certiﬁcate giving details of the operation performed (for 
surgical cases).
ix. Sticker/Invoice of the Implants, wherever applicable.
x. MLR(Medico Legal Report copyif carried out and FIR (First information report) 
if registered, where ever applicable.
xi. NEFT Details (to enable direct credit of claim amount in bank account) and 
cancelled cheque
xii. KYC (Identity proof with Address) of the proposer, where claim liability is 
above Rs 1 Lakh as per AML Guidelines
xiii. Legal heir/succession certiﬁcate , wherever applicable
xiv. Any other relevant document required by Company/TPA for assessment of the claim.
[Note: Insurer may specify the documents required in original and waive off 
any of above required as per their claim procedure]
Note:
1. The company shall only accept bills/invoices/medical treatment related 
documents only in the Insured Person's name for whom the claim is submitted
2. In the event of a claim lodged under the Policy and the original documents 
having been submitted to any other insurer, the Company shall accept the 
copy of the documents and claim settlement advice, duly certiﬁed by the other 
insurer subject to satisfaction of the Company
3. Any delay in notiﬁcation or submission may be condoned on merit where delay 
is proved to be for reasons beyond the control of the Insured Person
9.3 Co-payment: Each and every claim under the Policy shall be subject to a Copayment 
of 5% applicable to claim amount admissible and payable as per the terms and 
conditions of the Policy. The amount payable shall be after deduction of the copayment.
9.4 Claim Settlement (provision for Penal Interest)
i. The Company shall settle or reject a claim, as the case may be, within 30 days 
from the date of receipt of last necessary document.
ii. In the case of delay in the payment of a claim, the Company shall be liable to 
pay interest from the date of receipt of last necessary document to the date of 
payment of claim at a rate 2% above the bank rate.
iii. However, where the circumstances of a claim warrant an investigation in the 
opinion of the Company, it shall initiate and complete such investigation at the 
earliestin any case not later than 30 days from the date of receipt of last 
necessary document. In such cases, the Company shall settle the claim within 
45 days from the date of receipt of last necessary document.
iv. In case of delay beyond stipulated 45 days the company shall be liable to pay 
interest at a rate 2% above the bank rate from the date of receipt of last 
necessary document to the date of payment of claim.
9.5 Payment of Claim: All claims under the policy shall be payable in Indian currency only.
S.No. Type of Claim Prescribed Time limit
1. Reimbursement of hospitalization, day 
care and pre hospitalization expenses
Within thirty days of date of discharge 
from hospital
2. Reimbursement of post hospitalization 
expenses
Within ﬁfteen days from completion of 
post hospitalization treatment

--- PAGE 7 ---

7 of 10Unique Identiﬁcation No.: SHAHLIP22027V032122Arogya Sanjeevani Policy, Star Health and Allied Insurance Co Ltd. POL / ASP / V.4 / 2021
10. GENERAL TERMS &CONDITIONS                                                                                             
10.1 Disclosure of Information: The Policy shall be void and all premium paid thereon 
shall be forfeited to the Company in the event of misrepresentation, mis-description 
or non-disclosure of any material fact.
10.2 Condition Precedent to Admission of Liability: The due observance and 
fulﬁlment of the terms and conditions of the policy, by the insured person, shall be a 
condition precedent to any liability of the Company to make any payment for 
claim(s) arising under the policy.
10.3 Material Change: The insured shall notify the Company in writing of any material 
change in the risk in relation to the declaration made in the proposal form or medical 
examination report at each Renewal and the Company may, adjust the scope of 
cover and / or premium, if necessary, accordingly.
10.4 Records to be Maintained: The Insured Person shall keep an accurate record 
containing all relevant medical records and shall allow the Company or its 
representatives to inspect such records. The Policyholder or Insured Person shall 
furnish such information as the Company may require for settlement of any claim under 
the Policy, within reasonable time limit and within the time limit speciﬁed in the Policy
10.5 Complete Discharge: Any payment to the Insured Person or his/ her nominees or 
his/ her legal representative or to the Hospital/Nursing Home or Assignee, as the 
case may be, for any beneﬁt under the Policy shall in all cases be a full, valid and an 
effectual discharge towards payment of claim by the Company to the extent of that 
amount for the particular claim
10.6 Notice & Communication
i. Any notice, direction, instruction or any other communication related to the 
Policy should be made in writing.
ii. Such communication shall be sent to the address of the Company or through 
any other electronic modes speciﬁed in the Policy Schedule.
iii. The Company shall communicate to the Insured at the address or through any 
other electronic mode mentioned in the schedule.
10.7 Territorial Limit: All medical treatment for the purpose of this insurance will have to 
be taken in India only.
10.8 Multiple Policies
1. In case of multiple policies taken by an insured during a period from the same 
or one or more insurers to indemnify treatment costs, the policyholder shall 
have the right to require a settlement of his/her claim in terms of any of his/her 
policies. In all such cases the insurer if chosen by the policy holder shall be 
obliged to settle the claim as long as the claim is within the limits of and 
according to the terms of the chosen policy.
2. Policyholder having multiple policies shall also have the right to prefer claims 
under this policy for the amounts disallowed under any other policy / policies, 
even if the sum insured is not exhausted. Then the Insurer(s) shall 
independently settle the claim subject to the terms and conditions of this policy.
3. If the amount to be claimed exceeds the sum insured under a single policy 
after, the policyholder shall have the right to choose insurers from whom 
he/she wants to claim the balance amount.
4. Where an insured has policies from more than one insurer to cover the same 
risk on indemnity basis, the insured shall only be indemniﬁed the hospitalization 
costs in accordance with the terms and conditions of the chosen policy.
10.9 Fraud: If any claim made by the insured person, is in any respect fraudulent, or if .
any false statement, or declaration is made or used in support thereof, or if any 
fraudulent means or devices are used by the insured person or anyone acting on 
his/her behalf to obtain any beneﬁt under this policy, all beneﬁts under this policy 
shall be forfeited.
Any amount already paid against claims which are found fraudulent later under this 
policy shall be repaid by all person(s) named in the policy schedule, who shall be 
jointly and severally liable for such repayment.
For the purpose of this clause, the expression "fraud" means any of the following 
acts committed by the Insured Person or by his agent, with intent to deceive the 
insurer or to induce the insurer to issue a insurance Policy: 
(a) the suggestion ,as a fact of that which is not true and which the Insured Person 
does not believe to be true;
(b) the active concealment of a fact by the Insured Person having knowledge or 
belief of the fact;
(c) any other act ﬁtted to deceive; and
(d) any such act or omission as the law specially declares to be fraudulent
The company shall not repudiate the policy on the ground of fraud, if the insured 
person / beneﬁciary can prove that the misstatement was true to the best of his 
knowledge and there was no deliberate intention to suppress the fact or that such 
mis-statement of or suppression of material fact are within the knowledge of the 
insurer. Onus of disproving is upon the policyholder, if alive, or beneﬁciaries.
10.10 Cancellation
a) The Insured may cancel this Policy by giving 15days' written notice, and in 
such an event, the Company shall refund premium on short term rates for the 
unexpired Policy Period as per the rates detailed below;
Notwithstanding anything contained herein or otherwise, no refunds of premium 
shall be made in respect of Cancellation where, any claim has been admitted or has 
been lodged or any beneﬁt has been availed by the Insured person under the 
Policy.
b) The Company may cancel the Policy at any time on grounds of 
mis-represenation, non-disclosure of material facts ,fraud by the Insured 
Person, by giving 15 days' written notice. There would be no refund of 
premium on cancellation on grounds of mis-represenation ,non-disclosure of 
material facts or fraud.
10.11 Automatic change in Coverage under the policy: The coverage for the Insured 
Person(s) shall automatically terminate:
1. In the case of his/ her (Insured Person) demise. However the cover shall 
continue for the remaining Insured Persons till the end of Policy Period. The 
other insured persons may also apply to renew the policy. In case, the other 
insured person is minor, the policy shall be renewed only through any one of 
his/her natural guardian or guardian appointed by court. All relevant 
particulars in respect of such person (including his/her relationship with the 
insured person) must be submitted to the company along with the application. 
Provided no claim has been made, and termination takes place on account of 
death of the insured person, pro-rata refund of premium of the deceased 
insured person for the balance period of the policy will be effective.
2. Upon exhaustion of sum insured and cumulative bonus, for the policy year. 
However, the policy is subject to renewal on the due date as per the applicable 
terms and conditions.
10.12 Territorial Jurisdiction: All disputes or differences under or in relation to the 
interpretation of the terms, conditions, validity, construct, limitations and/or 
exclusions contained in the Policy shall be determined by the Indian court and 
according to Indian law.
10.13 Arbitration
i. If any dispute or difference shall arise as to the quantum to be paid by the 
Policy, (liability being otherwise admitted) such difference shall independently 
of all other questions, be referred to the decision of a sole arbitrator to be 
appointed in writing by the parties here to or if they cannot agree upon a single 
arbitrator within thirty days of any party invoking arbitration, the same shall be 
referred to a panel of three arbitrators, comprising two arbitrators, one to be 
appointed by each of the parties to the dispute/difference and the third 
arbitrator to be appointed by such two arbitrators and arbitration shall be 
conducted under a.nd in accordance with the provisions of the Arbitration and 
Conciliation Act 1996, as amended by Arbitration and Conciliation 
(Amendment) Act, 2015 (No. 3 of 2016).
ii. It is clearly agreed and understood that no difference or dispute shall be 
preferable to arbitration as herein before provided, if the Company has 
disputed or not accepted liability under or in respect of the policy.
iii. It is hereby expressly stipulated and declared that it shall be a condition 
precedent to any right of action or suit upon the policy that award by such 
arbitrator/arbitrators of the amount of expenses shall be ﬁrst obtained.
10.14 Migration: The Insured Person will have the option to migrate the Policy to other 
health insurance products/plans offered by the company as per extant Guidelines 
related to Migration. If such person is presently covered and has been continuously 
covered without any lapses under any health insurance product/plan offered by the 
company, as per Guidelines on migration, the proposed Insured Person will get all 
the accrued continuity beneﬁts in waiting periods as per below;
i. The waiting periods speciﬁed in Section 6 shall be reduced by the number of 
continuous preceding years of coverage of the Insured Person under the 
previous health insurance Policy.
ii. Migration beneﬁt will be offered to the extent of sum of previous sum insured 
and accrued bonus/multiplier beneﬁt (as part of the base sum insured), 
migration beneﬁt shall not apply to any other additional increased Sum 
Insured.
For Detailed Guidelines on migration, kindly refer the link
https://www.irdai.gov.in/ADMINCMS/cms/frmGuidelines_Layout.aspx?page=PageNo3987
10.15 Portability: The Insured Person will have the option to port the Policy to other 
insurers as per extant Guidelines related to portability. If such person is presently 
covered and has been continuously covered without any lapses under any health 
insurance plan with an Indian General/Health insurer as per Guidelines on 
portability, the proposed Insured Person will get all the accrued continuity beneﬁts 
in waiting periods as Under;
i. The waiting periods speciﬁed in Section 6 shall be reduced by the number of 
continuous preceding years of coverage of the Insured Person under the 
previous health insurance Policy.
ii. Portability beneﬁt will be offered to the extent of sum of previous sum insured 
and accrued bonus (as part of the base sum insured), portability beneﬁt shall 
not apply to any other additional increased Sum Insured.
For Detailed Guidelines on portability, kindly refer the link
https://www.irdai.gov.in/ADMINCMS/cms/frmGuidelines_Layout.aspx?page=PageNo3987
10.16 Renewal of Policy: The policy shall ordinarily be renewable except on grounds of 
fraud, moral hazard, misrepresentation by the insured person. The Company is not 
bound to give notice that it is due for renewal.
i. Renewal shall not be denied on the ground that the insured had made a claim 
or claims in the preceding policy years
ii. Request for renewal along with requisite premium shall be received by the 
Company before the end of the Policy Period.
Refund %
Refund of Premium (basis Policy Period)
Timing of Cancellation 1 Yr
Up to 30 days 75.00%
31 to 90 days 50.00%
3 to 6 months 25.00%
6 to 12 months  0.00%

--- PAGE 8 ---

8 of 10Unique Identiﬁcation No.: SHAHLIP22027V032122Arogya Sanjeevani Policy, Star Health and Allied Insurance Co Ltd. POL / ASP / V.4 / 2021
iii. At the end of the Policy Period, the policy shall terminate and can be renewed 
within the Grace Period to maintain continuity of beneﬁts without Break in 
Policy. Coverage is not available during the grace period.
iv. if not renewed within Grace Period after due renewal date, the Policy shall 
terminate.
10.17 Premium Payment In Installments: If the insured person has opted for Payment 
of Premium on an installment basis i.e. Half Yearly or Quarterly, as mentioned in 
Your Policy Schedule/Certiﬁcate of Insurance, the following Conditions shall apply 
(notwithstanding any terms contrary elsewhere in the Policy)
i. Grace Period of 15 days would be given to pay the installment premium due for 
the Policy.
ii. During such grace period, Coverage will not be available from the installment 
premium payment due date till the date of receipt of premium by Company.
iii. The Beneﬁts provided under — "Waiting Periods", "Speciﬁc Waiting Periods" 
Sections shall continue in the event of payment of premium within the 
stipulated grace Period.
iv. No interest will be charged If the installment premium is not paid on due date.
v. In case of installment premium due not received within the grace Period, the 
Policy will get cancelled.
10.18 Possibility of Revision of Terms of the Policy including the Premium Rates: The 
Company, with prior approval of IRDAI, may revise or modify the terms of the policy 
including the premium rates. The insured person shall be notiﬁed three months 
before the changes are affected.
10.19 Free look period: The Free Look Period shall be applicable at the inception of the 
Policy and not on renewals or at the time of porting the policy.
The insured shall be allowed a period of ﬁfteen days from date of receipt of the 
Policy to review the terms and conditions of the Policy, and to return the same if not 
acceptable.
If the insured has not made any claim during the Free Look Period, the insured shall 
be entitled to 
i a refund of the premium paid less any expenses incurred by the Company on 
medical examination of the insured person and the stamp duty charges; or
ii. where the risk has already commenced and the option of return of the Policy is 
exercised by the insured, a deduction towards the proportionate risk premium 
for period of cover or
iii. Where only a part of the insurance coverage has commenced, such 
proportionate premium commensurate with the insurance coverage during 
such period;
10.20 Endorsements (Changes in Policy)
i. This policy constitutes the complete contract of insurance. This Policy cannot 
be modiﬁed by anyone (including an insurance agent or broker) except the 
company. Any change made by the company shall be evidenced by a written 
endorsement signed and stamped.
ii. The policyholder may be changed only at the time of renewal. The new 
policyholder must be the legal heir/immediate family member. Such change 
would be subject to acceptance by the company and payment of premium (if 
any). The renewed Policy shall be treated as having been renewed without break.
The policyholder may be changed during the Policy Period only in case of his/her 
demise or him/her moving out of India.
10.21 Change of Sum Insured: Sum insured can be changed (increased/ decreased) 
only at the time of renewal or at any time, subject to underwriting by the Company. 
For any increase in SI, the waiting period shall start afresh only for the enhanced 
portion of the sum insured.
10.22 Terms and conditions of the Policy: The terms and conditions contained herein 
and in the Policy Schedule shall be deemed to form part of the Policy and shall be 
read together as one document.
10.23 Nomination: The policyholder is required at the inception of the policy to make a 
nomination for the purpose of payment of claims under the policy in the event of 
death of the policyholder. Any change of nomination shall be communicated to the 
company in writing and such change shall be effective only when an endorsement 
on the policy is made. For Claim settlement under reimbursement, the Company 
will pay the policyholder. In the event of death of the policyholder, the Company will 
pay the nominee {as named in the Policy Schedule/Policy Certiﬁcate/Endorsement 
(if any)} and in case there is no subsisting nominee, to the legal heirs or legal 
representatives of the Policyholder whose discharge shall be treated as full and 
ﬁnal discharge of its liability under the Policy.
11. REDRESSAL OF GRIEVANCE                                                                                             
Grievance — In case of any grievance relating to servicing the Policy, the insured person 
may submit in writing to the Policy issuing ofﬁce or regional ofﬁce for redressal.
For updated details of grievance ofﬁcer, kindly refer the link
https://www.starhealth.in/grievance-redressal
For details of grievance ofﬁcer, kindly refer the link (Link having details of grievance ofﬁcer 
on website to be provided)
IRDAI Integrated Grievance Management System - https://igms.irda.gov.in/
Insurance Ombudsman — The insured person may also approach the ofﬁce of Insurance 
Ombudsman of the respective area/region for redressal of grievance. The contact details 
of the Insurance Ombudsman ofﬁces have been provided as Annexure-B
No loading shall apply on renewals based on individual claims experience. 
lnsurance is the subject matter of solicitation
12. TABLE OF BENEFITS
Name Arogya Sanjeevani Policy,
Star Health and Allied Insurance Co Ltd.
Product Type Individual/ Floater
Category of Cover Indemnity
Sum insured
IN R
On Individual basis — Si shall apply to each individual family 
member On Floater basis — SI shall apply to the entire family
Policy Period 1 year
Eligibility
Policy can be availed by persons between the age of 18 years and 
65years, as Proposer. Proposer with higher age can obtain policy 
for family, without covering self.
Policy can be availed for Self and the following family members
i. legally wedded spouse.
ii. Parents and Parents-in-law .
iii. Dependent Children (i.e. natural or legally adopted) between 
the age 3 months to 25 years. If the child above 18 years of age 
is ﬁnancially independent, he or she shall be ineligible for 
coverage in the subsequent renewals
Grace Period
For Yearly payment of mode, a ﬁxed period of 30 days is to be 
allowed as Grace Period and for all other modes of payment a 
ﬁxed period of 15 days be allowed as grace period.
Hospitalisation 
Expenses
Expenses of Hospitalization for a minimum period of 
24 consecutive hours only shall be admissible 
Time limit of 24 hrs shall not apply when the treatment is 
undergone in a Day Care Centre.
Pre Hospitalisation For 30 days prior to the date of hospitalization
Post Hospitalisation For 60 days from the date of discharge from the hospital
Sublimit for 
room/doctors fee
1. Room Rent, Boarding, Nursing Expenses all inclusive as 
provided by the Hospital / Nursing Home up to 2% of the sum 
insured subject to maximum of Rs.5000/- per day.
2. lntensive Care Unit (ICU) charges/ Intensive Cardiac Care Unit 
(ICCU) charges all inclusive as provided by the Hospital / 
Nursing Home up to 5% of the sum insured subject to maximum 
of Rs.10,000/-, per day
Cataract 
Treatment
Up to 25% of Sum insured or Rs.40,000/-, whichever is lower, per 
eye, under one policy year.
AYUSH
Expenses incurred for Inpatient Care treatment under Ayurveda, 
Yoga and Naturopathy, Unani, Siddha and Homeopathy systems 
of medicines shall be covered upto sum insured, during each 
Policy year as speciﬁed in the policy schedule.
Pre Existing 
Disease
Only PEDs declared in the Proposal Form and accepted for coverage 
by the company shall be covered after a waiting period of 4 years
Cumulative 
bonus
Increase in the sum insured by 5% in respect of each claim free 
year subject to a maximum of 50% of SI. In the event of claim the 
cumulative bonus shall be reduced at the same rate.
Co Pay 5% co pay on all claims
Annexure-A
List I — Items for which coverage is not available in the policy
S.No. ITEM
1 BABY FOOD
2 BABY UTILITIES CHARGES
3 BEAUTY SERVICES
4 BELTS/ BRACES
5 BUDS
6 COLD PACK/HOT PACK 
7 CARRY BAGS
8 EMAIL / INTERNET CHARGES
9 FOOD CHARGES (OTHER THAN PATIENT's DIET PROVIDED BY 
HOSPITAL)
10 LEGGINGS
11 LAUNDRY CHARGES
12 MINERAL WATER
13 SANITARY PAD
14 TELEPHONE CHARGES
15 GUEST SERVICES

--- PAGE 9 ---

9 of 10Unique Identiﬁcation No.: SHAHLIP22027V032122Arogya Sanjeevani Policy, Star Health and Allied Insurance Co Ltd. POL / ASP / V.4 / 2021
List III — Items that are to be subsumed into Procedure Charges 
S.No. ITEM
1 HAIR REMOVAL CREAM
2 DISPOSABLES RAZORS CHARGES (for site preparations)
3 EYE PAD
4 EYE SHEILD
5 CAMERA COVER
6 DVD, CD CHARGES
7 GAUSE SOFT
8 GAUZE
9 WARD AND THEATRE BOOKING CHARGES
10 ARTHROSCOPY AND ENDOSCOPY INSTRUMENTS
11 MICROSCOPE COVER
12 SURGICAL BLADES, HARMONICSCALPEL,SHAVER
13 SURGICAL DRILL
14 EYE KIT
15 EYE DRAPE
16 X-RAY FILM
17 BOYLES APPARATUS CHARGES
18 COTTON
19 COTTON BANDAGE
20 SURGICAL TAPE
21 APRON
22 TORNIQUET
23 ORTHOBUNDLE, GYNAEC BUNDLE
List II — Items that are to be subsumed into Room Charges 
S.No. ITEM
1 BABY CHARGES (UNLESS SPECIFIED/INDICATED)
2 HAND WASH
3 SHOE COVER
4 CAPS
5 CRADLE CHARGES
6 COMB
7 EAU-DE-COLOGNE / ROOM FRESHNERS
8 FOOT COVER
9 GOWN
10 SLIPPERS
11 TISSUE PAPER
12 TOOTH PASTE
13 TOOTH BRUSH
14 BED PAN
15 FACE MASK
16 FLEXI MASK
17 HAND HOLDER
18 SPUTUM CUP
19 DISINFECTANT LOTIONS
20 LUXURY TAX
21 HVAC
22 HOUSE KEEPING CHARGES
23 AIR CONDITIONER CHARGES
24 IM IV INJECTION CHARGES
25 CLEAN SHEET
26 BLANKET/WARMER BLANKET
27 ADMISSION KIT
28 DIABETIC CHART CHARGES
29 DOCUMENTATION CHARGES / ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES
30 DISCHARGE PROCEDURE CHARGES
31 DAILY CHART CHARGES
32 ENTRANCE PASS / VISITORS PASS CHARGES
33 EXPENSES RELATED TO PRESCRIPTION ON DISCHARGE
34 FILE OPENING CHARGES
35 INCIDENTAL EXPENSES / MISC. CHARGES (NOT EXPLAINED)
36 PATIENT IDENTIFICATION BAND / NAME TAG
37 PULSEOXYMETER CHARGES
List I — Items for which coverage is not available in the policy
S.No. ITEM
16 CREPE BANDAGE
17 DIAPER OF ANY TYPE
18 EYELET COLLAR
19 SLINGS
20 BLOOD GROUPING AND CROSS MATCHING OF DONORS SAMPLES
21 SERVICE CHARGES WHERE NURSING CHARGE ALSO CHARGED
22 TELEVISION CHARGES
23 SURCHARGES
24 ATTENDANT CHARGES
25 EXTRA DIET OF PATIENT (OTHER THAN THAT WHICH FORMS PART OF 
BED CHARGE)
26 BIRTH CERTIFICATE
27 CERTIFICATE CHARGES
28 COURIER CHARGES
29 CONVEYANCE CHARGES
30 MEDICAL CERTIFICATE
31 MEDICAL RECORDS
32 PHOTOCOPIES CHARGES
33 MORTUARY CHARGES
34 WALKING AIDS CHARGES
35 OXYGEN CYLINDER (FOR USAGE OUTSIDE THE HOSPITAL)
36 SPACER
37 SPIROMETRE
38 NEBULIZER KIT
39 STEAM INHALER
40 ARMSLING
41 THERMOMETER
42 CERVICAL COLLAR
43 SPLINT
44 DIABETIC FOOT WEAR
45 KNEE BRACES (LONG/ SHORT/ HINGED)
46 KNEE IMMOBILIZER/SHOULDER IMMOBILIZER
47 LUMBO SACRAL BELT
48 NIMBUS BED OR WATER OR AIR BED CHARGES
49 AMBULANCE COLLAR
50 AMBULANCE EQUIPMENT
51 ABDOMINAL BINDER
52 PRIVATE NURSES CHARGES- SPECIAL NURSING CHARGES
53 SUGAR FREE TABLETS
54 CREAMS POWDERS LOTIONS (Toiletries are not payable, only prescribed 
medical pharmaceuticals payable)
55 ECG ELECTRODES
56 GLOVES
57 NEBULISATION KIT
58 ANY KIT WITH NO DETAILS MENTIONED [DELIVERY KIT, ORTHOKIT, 
RECOVERY KIT, ETC]
59 KIDNEY TRAY
60 MASK
61 OUNCE GLASS
62 OXYGEN MASK
63 PELVIC TRACTION BELT
64 PAN CAN
65 TROLLY COVER
66 UROMETER, URINE JUG
67 AMBULANCE
68 VASOFIX SAFETY

--- PAGE 10 ---

10 of 10Unique Identiﬁcation No.: SHAHLIP22027V032122Arogya Sanjeevani Policy, Star Health and Allied Insurance Co Ltd. POL / ASP / V.4 / 2021
List of Insurance Ombudsman
AHMEDABAD
Ofﬁce of the Insurance Ombudsman,
Jeevan Prakash Building, 6th ﬂoor,
Tilak Marg, Relief Road,
Ahmedabad – 380 001.
Tel.: 079 - 25501201 / 02 / 05 / 06
Email: bimalokpal.ahmedabad@ecoi.co.in
JURISDICTION: Gujarat, Dadra & Nagar Haveli, 
Daman and Diu.
BENGALURU
Ofﬁce of the Insurance Ombudsman,
Jeevan Soudha Building,PID No. 57-27-N-19
Ground Floor, 19/19, 24th Main Road,
JP Nagar, 1st Phase,
Bengaluru – 560 078.
Tel.: 080 - 26652048 / 26652049
Email: bimalokpal.bengaluru@ecoi.co.in
JURISDICTION: Karnataka.
BHOPAL
Ofﬁce of the Insurance Ombudsman,
Janak Vihar Complex, 2nd Floor,
6, Malviya Nagar, Opp. Airtel Ofﬁce,
Near New Market,
Bhopal – 462 003.
Tel.: 0755 - 2769201 / 2769202
Fax: 0755 - 2769203
Email: bimalokpal.bhopal@ecoi.co.in
JURISDICTION: Madhya Pradesh
Chattisgarh.
BHUBANESHWAR
Ofﬁce of the Insurance Ombudsman,
62, Forest park,
Bhubneshwar – 751 009.
Tel.: 0674 - 2596461 / 2596455
Fax: 0674 - 2596429
Email: bimalokpal.bhubaneswar@ecoi.co.in
JURISDICTION: Orissa.
CHANDIGARH
Ofﬁce of the Insurance Ombudsman,
S.C.O. No. 101, 102 & 103, 2nd Floor,
Batra Building, Sector 17 – D,
Chandigarh – 160 017.
Tel.: 0172 - 2706196 / 2706468
Fax: 0172 - 2708274
Email: bimalokpal.chandigarh@ecoi.co.in
JURISDICTION: Punjab, Haryana, Himachal 
Pradesh, Jammu & Kashmir and
Union territory of Chandigarh.
CHENNAI
Ofﬁce of the Insurance Ombudsman,
Fatima Akhtar Court, 4th Floor, 453,
Anna Salai, Teynampet,
CHENNAI – 600 018.
Tel.: 044 - 24333668 / 24335284
Fax: 044 - 24333664
Email: bimalokpal.chennai@ecoi.co.in
JURISDICTION: Tamil Nadu,
Pondicherry Town and Karaikal
(which are part of Pondicherry).
DELHI
Ofﬁce of the Insurance Ombudsman,
2/2 A, Universal Insurance Building,
Asaf Ali Road,
New Delhi – 110 002.
Tel.: 011 - 23232481 / 23213504
Email: bimalokpal.delhi@ecoi.co.in
JURISDICTION: Delhi
ERNAKULAM
Ofﬁce of the Insurance Ombudsman,
2nd Floor, Pulinat Bldg.,
Opp. Cochin Shipyard, M. G. Road,
Ernakulam - 682 015.
Tel.: 0484 - 2358759 / 2359338
Fax: 0484 - 2359336
Email: bimalokpal.ernakulam@ecoi.co.in
JURISDICTION: Kerala, Lakshadweep,
Mahe-a part of Pondicherry
GUWAHATI
Ofﬁce of the Insurance Ombudsman,
Jeevan Nivesh, 5th Floor,
Nr. Panbazar over bridge, S.S. Road,
Guwahati – 781001(ASSAM).
Tel.: 0361 - 2632204 / 2602205
Email: bimalokpal.guwahati@ecoi.co.in
JURISDICTION: Assam, Meghalaya, Manipur, 
Mizoram, Arunachal Pradesh,
Nagaland and Tripura.
HYDERABAD
Ofﬁce of the Insurance Ombudsman,
6-2-46, 1st ﬂoor, "Moin Court",
Lane Opp. Saleem Function Palace,
A. C. Guards, Lakdi-Ka-Pool,
Hyderabad - 500 004.
Tel.: 040 - 67504123 / 23312122
Fax: 040 - 23376599
Email: bimalokpal.hyderabad@ecoi.co.in
JURISDICTION: Andhra Pradesh,
Telangana, Yanam and
part of Territory of Pondicherry.
JAIPUR
Ofﬁce of the Insurance Ombudsman,
Jeevan Nidhi – II Bldg., Gr. Floor,
Bhawani Singh Marg,
Jaipur - 302 005.
Tel.: 0141 - 2740363
Email: Bimalokpal.jaipur@ecoi.co.in
JURISDICTION: Rajasthan.
KOLKATA
Ofﬁce of the Insurance Ombudsman,
Hindustan Bldg. Annexe, 4th Floor,
4, C.R. Avenue,
KOLKATA - 700 072.
Tel.: 033 - 22124339 / 22124340
Fax : 033 - 22124341
Email: bimalokpal.kolkata@ecoi.co.in
JURISDICTION: West Bengal,
Sikkim, Andaman & Nicobar Islands.
LUCKNOW
Ofﬁce of the Insurance Ombudsman,
6th Floor, Jeevan Bhawan, Phase-II,
Nawal Kishore Road, Hazratganj,
Lucknow - 226 001.
Tel.: 0522 - 2231330 / 2231331
Fax: 0522 - 2231310
Email: bimalokpal.lucknow@ecoi.co.in
JURISDICTION: Districts of Uttar Pradesh:
Laitpur, Jhansi, Mahoba, Hamirpur, Banda, 
Chitrakoot, Allahabad, Mirzapur, Sonbhabdra, 
Fatehpur, Pratapgarh, Jaunpur,Varanasi, 
Gazipur, Jalaun, Kanpur, Lucknow, Unnao, 
Sitapur, Lakhimpur, Bahraich, Barabanki, 
Raebareli, Sravasti, Gonda, Faizabad, Amethi, 
Kaushambi, Balrampur, Basti, Ambedkarnagar, 
Sultanpur, Maharajgang, Santkabirnagar, 
Azamgarh, Kushinagar, Gorkhpur, Deoria, Mau, 
Ghazipur, Chandauli, Ballia, Sidharathnagar.
MUMBAI
Ofﬁce of the Insurance Ombudsman,
3rd Floor, Jeevan Seva Annexe,
S. V. Road, Santacruz (W),
Mumbai - 400 054.
Tel.: 022 - 26106552 / 26106960
Fax: 022 - 26106052
Email: bimalokpal.mumbai@ecoi.co.in
JURISDICTION: Goa,
Mumbai Metropolitan Region
excluding Navi Mumbai & Thane.
NOIDA
Ofﬁce of the Insurance Ombudsman,
Bhagwan Sahai Palace
4th Floor, Main Road,
Naya Bans, Sector 15,
Distt: Gautam Buddh Nagar,
U.P - 201301.
Tel.: 0120-2514250 / 2514252 / 2514253
Email: bimalokpal.noida@ecoi.co.in
JURISDICTION: State of Uttaranchal and the 
following Districts of Uttar Pradesh:
Agra, Aligarh, Bagpat, Bareilly, Bijnor, Budaun, 
Bulandshehar, Etah, Kanooj, Mainpuri, Mathura, 
Meerut, Moradabad, Muzaffarnagar, Oraiyya, 
Pilibhit, Etawah, Farrukhabad, Firozbad, 
Gautambodhanagar, Ghaziabad, Hardoi, 
Shahjahanpur, Hapur, Shamli, Rampur, 
Kashganj, Sambhal, Amroha, Hathras, 
Kanshiramnagar, Saharanpur.
PATNA
Ofﬁce of the Insurance Ombudsman,
1st Floor,Kalpana Arcade Building,,
Bazar Samiti Road,
Bahadurpur,
Patna 800 006.
Tel.: 0612-2680952
Email: bimalokpal.patna@ecoi.co.in
JURISDICTION: Bihar and Jharkhand.
PUNE
Ofﬁce of the Insurance Ombudsman,
Jeevan Darshan Bldg., 3rd Floor,
C.T.S. No.s. 195 to 198,
N.C. Kelkar Road, Narayan Peth,
Pune – 411 030.
Tel.: 020-41312555
Email: bimalokpal.pune@ecoi.co.in
JURISDICTION: Maharashtra, Area of Navi 
Mumbai and Thane excluding Mumbai 
Metropolitan Region.
List IV — Items that are to be subsumed into costs of treatment 
S.No. ITEM
10 HIV KIT
11 ANTISEPTIC MOUTHWASH
12 LOZENGES
13 MOUTH PAINT
14 VACCINATION CHARGES
15 ALCOHOL SWABES
16 SCRUB SOLUTION/STERILLIUM
17 Glucometer& Strips
18 URINE BAG
List IV — Items that are to be subsumed into costs of treatment 
S.No. ITEM
1 ADMISSION/REGISTRATION CHARGES
2 HOSPITALISATION FOR EVALUATION/ DIAGNOSTIC PURPOSE
3 URINE CONTAINER
4 BLOOD RESERVATION CHARGES AND ANTE NATAL BOOKING 
CHARGES
5 PAP MACHINE
6 CPAP/ CAPD EQUIPMENTS
7 INFUSION PUMP— COST
8 HYDROGEN PEROXIDE\SPIRIT1 DISINFECTANTS ETC
9 NUTRITION PLANNING CHARGES - DIETICIAN CHARGES- DIET 
CHARGES